Saved all this before it crashed again, just used TabulaSean to save my tabs and rebooted, everything working now. 

chromium --enable-unsafe-swiftshader

1. WebGL & GPU Errors
The most frequent error is about Automatic fallback to software WebGL. This usually happens because Chromium is having trouble talking to your graphics card or drivers.

The Quick Fix: As suggested in your logs, you can run Chromium with this flag to allow the software fallback: chromium --enable-unsafe-swiftshader

The Better Fix: If you want actual hardware acceleration, try forcing it (though this may be unstable depending on your drivers): chromium --ignore-gpu-blocklist --enable-gpu-rasterization --enable-zero-copy

2. DEPRECATED_ENDPOINT (GCM)
The google_apis/gcm/ errors refer to Google Cloud Messaging.

This is common in open-source Chromium builds that don't have official Google API keys baked in.

Fix: You can generally ignore this. If you want to stop the background syncing attempts, you can try signing out of your Google account within the browser or launching with --disable-background-networking.

3. IPH_TabSearch Errors
The "IPH" stands for In-Product Help.

Chromium is trying to show you a "Help" bubble for the Tab Search feature before the browser window is fully "ready" in the code's eyes.

Fix: This is a cosmetic bug in the current version of Chromium. It doesn't affect performance, but it sure does spam the console. You can disable these tips by launching with: chromium --propagate-iph-for-testing (though this is a workaround) or simply ignoring them.

Clean Launch Command
If you want to launch Chromium and suppress most of this console spam while addressing the WebGL issue, try this command:

Bash

chromium --enable-unsafe-swiftshader --disable-logging > /dev/null 2>&1 &
--enable-unsafe-swiftshader: Fixes the WebGL fallback error.

--disable-logging: Tells Chromium not to be so talkative.

> /dev/null 2>&1: Redirects any remaining output to the "black hole" so your terminal stays clean.

Would you like me to help you create an alias for your .bashrc or .zshrc so you don't have to type these flags every time?
