大文字 / Uppercase Letters, Capital Letters, Uppercase / おおもじ
大文字で〜; 
大文字ではじめる; to begin with a capital letter; 
大文字でかく; to write in capital letters;
大文字で入力する; type in upper case, type in capital letters
大文字に〜;
大文字にかえる; to change to upper case; 
大文字になる; to become upper case; 
大文字にする; to capitalize
Please capitalize the first letter.|さいしょの字は、大文字でかいてください。
Please rewrite the title in uppercase letters.|タイトルを大文字でかき直してください。
For some reason I like uppercase more than lowercase.|何故だかわからないけど、小文字より大文字の方が好きです。

耳打ち / Whisper In Ear, Whisper In One's Ear, Whisper In Someone's Ear / みみうち
耳打ちを〜; 
耳打ちをする; to whisper into someone's ear; 
耳打ちをしてくれる; to receive a whisper in the ear; 
耳打ちをしている; to be whispering into an ear
He secretly whispered in my ear.|かれは、わたしにこっそり耳打ちしました。
I happened to witness Koichi whispering something in Nikka's ear during the meeting.|ミーティングのときに、コウイチがニッカになにか耳打ちしてるのをみてしまった。
I told him to whisper something sexy in my ear and he said, "Do you like tapes and CDs?"|私が彼に、何かセクシーな言葉を耳打ちしてというと、彼は「テープやCDは好きかい？」と囁いてくれた。

見分ける / To Distinguish, To Tell Apart, To Recognize / みわける
見分ける〜; 
見分けるポイント; points to distinguish by; 
見分ける力; the ability to distinguish; 
見分けるこつ; the trick to telling something apart
〜で見分ける; 
どこで見分ける; how to tell the difference; 
色で見分ける; to distinguish by color; 
形で見分ける; to distinguish based on shape
〜を見分ける;
人を見分ける; to distinguish between people;
色を見分ける; to distinguish between colors; 
ちがいを見分ける; to recognize the differences
I can’t tell whether it’s real or fake.|本ものかにせものか見分けられない。
Is there a way to find out if my significant other is a psychopath?|こい人がサイコパスかどうか見分ける方ほうはありますか？
We should have put collars on our dogs, because now it's difficult to tell which one is mine and which one is yours.|首輪をつけておくべきだったよね。だって、どっちの犬がどっちの犬か見分けるのが難しくなっちゃったよ。

仕方がない / Can't Be Helped, It's No Use, There's No Other Way / しかたがない
〜は仕方がない; 
それは仕方がない; that cannot be helped; 
ミスは仕方がない; mistakes cannot be helped; 
これは仕方がない; this cannot be helped
If he’s angry, it can’t be helped.|かれがおこるのは、仕方がないよ。
There's no use in just crying.|泣いてばかりいても仕方がないよ。
You’re really hopeless!|お前は本当に仕方がないやつだ！

写る / To Be Photographed, To Be In A Photograph / うつる
〜が写る; 
人が写る; to have a person appear in a photograph, to have a person reflected; 
かおが写る; to have a face appear in a photograph, to have a face reflected; 
ものが写る; to have something appear in a photograph, to have something reflected
〜に写る; 
きれいに写る; to come out beautifully in a photo; 
レントゲンに写る; to appear in an X-ray;
カメラに写る; to appear in the camera
Is your brother in these pictures?|あなたのお兄さんは、このしゃしんに写っていますか。
Among the 500 pictures I took this year, 103 of them had my father who had died last year in them.|今年とった五百まいの写しんの内、なんと百三まいの写しんに去年しんだ父のすがたが写っていた。
The guy in this picture was my first kiss.|この写真に写っている男の人は、私のファーストキスです。

文化 / Culture / ぶんか 
文化〜; 
文化人; cultured person, highly educated person; 
文化ホール; cultural hall, auditorium; 
文化センター; a culture center, a civic center
文化を〜; 
文化をもつ; to have culture; 
文化を学ぶ; to study culture;
文化を知る; to know culture
〜文化;
外国文化; foreign culture;
食文化; food culture; 
生活文化; culture of everyday life
I’m interested in Japanese culture.|日本の文化にきょうみがあります。
Have you adapted to the culture of this country yet?|この国の文化にはなれましたか？
Is cosplaying part of Japanese culture?|コスプレは日本の文化の一つですか？

地 / Earth, Ground, Land / ち
〜の地; 
あこがれの地; a place of longing, a Mecca;
はじまりの地; the place where it all began, place of origin; 
それぞれの地; each place, each respective place
〜地; 
その地; that land; 
中心地; center, epicenter; 
この地; this land
One leaf fell lightly to the ground.|一まいのはっぱが、ひらりと地におちた。
Koichi used to be a big shot, but his reputation hit rock bottom after he lost a battle against a wild boar.|コウイチはむかしはおおものだったけど、イノシシとのたたかいにまけてから、ひょうばんが地におちたよね。
And yet, Koichi himself remains charmingly down-to-earth.|しかし、コウイチ氏は意外と地に足をしっかりつけ続けています。

地下 / Underground, Basement, Cellar / ちか 
〜の地下; 
デパートの地下; department store basement;
ビルの地下; building basement; 
ホテルの地下; hotel basement
地下に〜; 
地下にもぐる; to go underground; 
地下にある; to be underground;
地下にいる; to be underground
地下〜; 
地下トンネル; underground tunnel;
地下室; a basement, a cellar;
地下水; groundwater
There is a restroom in the basement of this building.|このたてものの地下に、トイレがあります。
I ate a lot of food samples at the food section of the department store basement.|デパ地下でたくさんし食をしました。
The Apocalypse is coming soon so I’m building an underground cellar.|ヨハネの黙示録がもうすぐ実現されるから、私は地下室を建設しているのだよ。

土地 / Land / とち
土地の〜;
土地の形; land shape;
土地の人; local resident, native of the area;
土地の活用; land use, land improvement
土地を〜; 
土地を見る; to look at land;
土地をもつ; to own land; 
土地をさがす; to look for land
土地〜; 
土地えらび; choosing a plot of land;
土地活用; land use, optimal land use;
土地不足; land shortage
〜の土地;
自分の土地; one's own land;
他の土地; other land; 
他人の土地; other people's land
This isn’t your land.|ここは、あなたの土地ではありません。
Koichi owns a vast tract of land in Minecraft.|コウイチはマインクラフトに広大な土地をもっている。
If I had some land of my own, I’d finally get my own bedroom.|もし自分の土地があれば、ようやくそこに自分のベッドルームを手に入れることができるぜ！

地図 / Map / ちず
地図を〜; 
地図を見る; to look at a map; 
地図を広げる; to spread out a map; 
地図を作る; to make a map
地図〜; 
地図づくり; mapmaking; 
地図上; on the map; 
地図データ; map data
〜の地図; 
下の地図; the map below; 
宝の地図; treasure map;
町の地図; map of the town
I got out the map on my smartphone.|スマートフォンで地図を出しました。
I walked around Tokyo with a map.|地図をかた手に東京を歩きました。
Teacher, if you forget your world map I have one tattoo'd on my forehead.|先生、もし世界地図を忘れたのなら、私の額にタトゥーの世界地図がありますよ。

両手 / Both Hands, Both Arms / りょうて
両手で〜; 
両手でつかむ; to grab with both hands; 
両手でもつ; to hold with both hands; 
両手で作る; to make with both hands
両手に〜; 
両手にある; to have in both hands; 
両手にもつ; to hold in both hands; 
両手にかかえる; to carry in both hands
両手を〜; 
両手をのばす; to extend both hands; 
両手を広げる; to spread both hands; 
両手を上げる; to raise both hands
They raised both hands and shouted banzai.|両手を上げて、バンザイをしました。
The girl spread her arms and stretched.|女の子は両手を広げてストレッチをした。
A balanced diet is a chocolate cookie in both hands.|バランスの良い食事とは、両手にチョコレートクッキーを持つことです。

両日 / Both Days / りょうじつ
両日とも〜; 
両日とも４:00まで; until 4:00 on both days; 
両日とも休日; both days are holidays;
両日とも雨; rain on both days
I’ll be in a meeting both days.|両日とも、会ぎが入っています。
The tofu festival had good weather for both days.|とうふまつりは、両日ともせい天にめぐまれた。
I attended the iPad lecture session on both days, but I still have no clue how to use it.|iPadの使い方についての講義に両日とも参加したが、まだ使い方が分からない

両方 / Both, Both Sides, Both Ways / りょうほう
両方を〜; 
両方をもつ; to hold both;
両方を行う; to carry out both;
両方をする; to do both
両方の〜; 
両方の目; both eyes; 
両方のバランス; the balance of both; 
両方の手; both hands
My older and younger sisters both live in Osaka.|姉も妹も、両方とも大さかにすんでいます。
You've got time, so why don't you try it both ways?|じかんはあるんだから、両方やってみたら？
Nope. They’re both mine.|ダメだよ！両方とも僕のだよ。

全て / All, Entire, Everything / すべて
全ての〜; 
全ての国; all countries;
全ての人々; all of the people;
全ての人; all people
全てを〜; 
全てを知る; to know all; 
全てを行う; to carry out all;
全てを見る; to see all
Everything went smoothly.|全てうまく行きました。
I am sorry, but all the seats are fully occupied at the moment, so...|申しわけございませんが、げんざい全てのおせきがうまっているじょうきょうでして...。
I was the first to do it. Wikipedia copied my entire homework assignment afterwards.|僕が先だよ。ウィキペディアが僕の宿題を全て真似したんだ。

全力 / Full Effort, Every Effort, Best Effort, Full Power / ぜんりょく
全力を〜; 
全力をあげる; to make utmost efforts; 
全力を出す; to put forth one's best effort; 
全力をつくす; to use all one's strength
全力で〜;
全力で走る; to run at full speed; 
全力でサポートする; to support with all one's effort; 
全力で止める; to make every effort to stop
I ran with all my might to the station.|えきまで、全力で走りました。
That Chinese woman tried her best to persuade the prince to marry her, but she failed.|その中国人の女は、王子が自分とけっこんしてくれるよう全力でせっとくしたが、しっぱいにおわった。
That zombie is using up all its strength trying to come back from the dead.|そのゾンビは、死から蘇ろうと全力を尽くしていた。

全日本 / All Japan, All Of Japan / ぜんにほん, ぜんにっぽん
全日本の〜; 
全日本のエース; all-Japan ace; 
全日本のメンバー; all-Japan members;
全日本のコーチ; all-Japan coach
全日本〜;
全日本プロレス; all-Japan wrestling; 
全日本チャンピオン; all-Japan champion; 
全日本大会; all-Japan tournament
This is a picture of a Japanese National Volleyball tournament match.|これは、全日本バレーボール大会のしあいの写しんです。
Koichi is in Japan to watch the All Japan Kendo Championships.|コウイチは、けん道の全日本せん手けんのしあいを見るために、日本に行っています。
All of Japan is covered in whipped cream.|全日本が生クリームに包まれている。

安全 / Safety, Safe / あんぜん
安全な〜; 
安全な国; a safe country; 
安全なところ; a safe place;
安全な水; safe water
安全に〜;
安全になる; to become safe;
安全にできる; to be able to make safe; 
安全に行う; to carry out safely
〜の安全; 
生活の安全; safe living;
人々の安全; people's safety;
食の安全; food safety
If I come here, I’m safe.|ここまで来れば、安全です。
I don't mind if we're a little slow, so just please drive safely.|ゆっくりでかまいませんので、安全うんてんでおねがいします。
My motto is safety first.|安全第一が私のモットーです。

方向 / Direction / ほうこう
〜の方向; 
プラスの方向; a positive direction; 
一つの方向; one direction; 
人生の方向; life direction, the course of one's life
〜方向; 
左方向; left direction; 
右方向; right direction; 
同じ方向; same direction
I lost my bearings.|わたしは、方向が分からなくなりました。
I'm super terrible with directions!|めっちゃ方向音ちなんですよ。
Are we going in the right direction? I thought Chuck E. Cheese was the other way.|こっちの方向であってるの？チャッキー・チーズは反対方向だと思ってたんだけど。

安い / Cheap, Inexpensive / やすい
〜が安い;
土地が安い; the land is cheap; 
どちらが安い; Which one is cheaper?; 
コストが安い; the cost is cheap
安い〜; 
安いの; a cheap one;
安いもの; cheap thing; 
安いほう; the cheaper one
Also, the cheap train is better.|そして、でん車は安い方がいいです。
Prices in Thailand are cheaper than America.|タイのぶっかはアメリカよりも安いです。
I bought a very cheap radio yesterday just so I could throw it off the roof of my apartment and watch it shatter.|アパートの屋根から投げて粉々になるのを見てみたかったので、昨日すごく安いラジオを買った。

安心 / Relief, Peace Of Mind / あんしん
安心〜; 
安心安全; safety and security; 
安心サポート; support for peace of mind; 
安心プラン; safety plan, warranty
ご安心〜;
ご安心してください; please don't worry, please set your mind at ease; 
ご安心下さい; please don't worry, please set your mind at ease; 
ご安心を; don't worry
安心を〜;
安心をくれる; gives one peace of mind;
安心をサポートする; to support one's peace of mind;
安心をする; to feel relieved, to feel peace of mind
That’s a relief.|これで安心です。
I never know what that kid will do next, so I can't get peace of mind.|あの子は次の行どうがよそくできないから、安心できないのよね。
I feel so relieved now that I know my dad no longer has cancer.|お父さんの癌が無くなったことを聞いて、とても安心した。

不安 / Uneasiness, Anxiety, Unease / ふあん
不安な〜; 
不安なこと; an uneasy matter;
不安な毎日; uneasy days; 
不安な思い; anxious thoughts
不安を〜; 
不安を生む; to produce anxiety; 
不安を広げる; to spread unease; 
不安をもつ; to have uneasiness
不安に〜; 
不安にする; to make uneasy, to make uncomfortable;
不安に思う; to feel uneasy; 
不安になる; to become uneasy
I’m anxious about passing.|ごうかくしているか不安です。
I'm so nervous about the impending childbirth.|出さんを目前に不安な気もちでいっぱいです。
Since I witnessed the murder, I haven't been able to rid myself of these feelings of anxiety.|あの殺人事件を目撃してからというもの、不安を取り除くことができない。

平安 / Peace, Peaceful, Heian / へいあん
平安な〜; 
平安な生活; a peaceful life; 
平安な日々; peaceful days;
平安な心; peaceful mind
When was the Heian period?|平安じだいはいつですか。
The WaniKani forums don't have any trolls, so it gives me peace of mind.|平安をみだす人がいないワニカニフォーラムは、わたしの心に平安をあたえてくれる。
Walking through the old growth forests in British Columbia was so peaceful.|ブリティッシュコロンビアの古の森を歩く時、心に平安を感じる。

州 / State, Province, County / しゅう
〜州; 
本州; Honshuu; 
メイン州; State of Maine; 
九州; Kyuushuu
I’m from New York state.|ニューヨーク州の出しんです。
There are fifty states in the United States.|アメリカがっしゅう国には、五十の州があります。
The headquarters of Tofugu is located in Portland, Oregon.|オレゴン州ポートランド市には、トーフグの本社がある

九州 / Kyuushuu, Kyushu(9 states) / きゅうしゅう
九州に〜; 
九州にある; to be in Kyuushuu;
九州にいる; to be in Kyuushuu;
九州に行く; to go to Kyuushuu
九州の〜; 
九州の人; people of Kyuushuu; 
九州のフルーツ; fruits of Kyuushuu; 
九州のことば; Kyuushuu dialect
Kyushu cuisine is delicious.|九州のりょうりはおいしいです。
It takes an hour to get to Kyushu by ferry.|九州までは、フェリーでかた道一じかんです。
There are many beautiful women in Kyushu.|九州には、綺麗な女性が多い。

本州 / Honshuu, Honshu(origin state) / ほんしゅう
本州に〜; 
本州にある; to be in Honshuu; 
本州にいる; to be in Honshuu; 
本州に行く; to go to Honshuu
本州の〜; 
本州の人; people of Honshuu;
本州のおみやげ; souvenir from Honshuu;
本州の天気; the weather of Honshuu
After this I plan on going to Honshu.|この後、本州に行くつもりです。
Where the heck in Japan is Honshu?|本州とは、いったいぜんたい日本のどこにあるんですか？
If you don't know where Honshu is, why don't you look it up on your computer?|本州がどこか分からなければ、パソコンでしらべたらどうですか？

曲 / Tune, Piece Of Music, Song, Melody / きょく
曲を〜; 
曲を作る; to compose a song; 
曲をきく; to listen to a song;
曲をうたう; to sing a song
〜の曲; 
次の曲; the next song; 
他の曲; other songs;
自分の曲; one's own songs
What was the name of that song?|その曲の名まえ、何だったっけ。
Are there any songs you would recommend?|何かおすすめの曲はありますか？
He played a tune for us on the piano, but for some reason, the piano sounded like a guitar.|彼がピアノで一曲弾いてくれたんですが、何故かそのピアノはギターの様な音がしたんです。

名曲 / Famous Music, Famous Song, Famous Tune, Masterpiece / めいきょく
〜の名曲; 
ロックの名曲; famous Rock song, Rock classics;
ジャズの名曲; famous Jazz song, Jazz classics; 
クラシックの名曲; a famous work of classical music
名曲を〜; 
名曲をきく; to listen to a musical masterpiece; 
名曲を生み出す; to bring forth a musical masterpiece;
名曲をのこす; to leave a musical masterpiece
Speaking of famous Christmas songs, what do you think?|クリスマスソングの名曲といえば、何だと思いますか。
This is known for being an excellent piece of music, but to me it's just like all the others.|この曲は名曲だと言われているけど、わたしには他の曲と大してかわりない。
Beethoven’s "Smoked Salmon" is a masterpiece.|ベートーベンの「スモークサーモン」は名曲だ。

有る / To Have, To Exist / ある
〜が有る;
お金が有る; to have money; 
車が有る; to have a car; 
ニーズが有る; to have a need, there is a need
We still have a little mayonnaise.|マヨネーズなら、まだ少し有ります。
There is only one train per hour.|一じかんに一本しかでん車は有りません。
There is gold in his house as well as silver on his roof.|彼の家には金も有るが、屋根の上に銀も有る。

有名 / Famous / ゆうめい
有名に〜; 
有名になる; to become famous;
有名にする; to make famous;
有名になれる; able to be famous
有名な〜; 
有名なところ; famous place; 
有名なはなし; famous story; 
有名なもの; famous thing
有名〜;
有名ホテル; famous hotel;
有名どころ; famous place;
有名大学; famous university
There is a famous sushi restaurant near my house.|いえの近くに、有名なすしやがあります。
This article suddenly made Tofugu super popular.|このきじはトーフグを一やくちょう有名にした。
I’m famous, are you?|俺は有名だけど、お前はどうよ？

次 / Next / つぎ
次へ〜; 
次へすすむ; to move on to the next step; 
次へつながる; to be linked to the next, to lead to the next; 
次へクリックする; to click to the next
次は〜; 
次は見る; to see next time; 
次は行く; to go next time; 
次はする; to do something next time
次の〜; 
次のステップ; the next step;
次のとおり; as follows; 
次のページ; the next page
Let’s catch the next train.|次のでん車にのりましょう。
I'll let you know once we decide on the next plan.|次のよていは、決まり次だいお知らせします。
The next destination on this bus tour is Michael Jackson’s house.|このバスツアーの次の目的地は、マイケル・ジャクソンの家です。

次回 / Next Time / じかい
次回は〜;
次回は行く; to go next time; 
次回はする; to do next time; 
次回は見る; to watch next time
次回の〜; 
次回のテーマ; the theme for next time;
次回のレッスン; next lesson;
次回のイベント; next event
I’m looking forward to the next production.|次回の作ひんも、たのしみにしています。
There is no next time. We only live once.|次回なんてないんだよ。人生は一どきりなんだから。
Don’t worry, bro. We’ll get them next time, yo.|兄貴、心配するなよ。次回は絶対あいつらを仕留めてやろうぜ。

目次 / Table Of Contents / もくじ
目次を〜;
目次を作る; to create a table of contents;
目次をよむ; to read the table of contents; 
目次を見る; to look at the table of contents
〜の目次; 
テキストの目次; table of contents for the textbook;
本の目次; table of contents for the book; 
マニュアルの目次; table of contents for the manual
The table of contents page was torn out.|目次のページがやぶれています。
First, I would like to explain the table of contents.|先ずはじめに、目次をごせつ明いたします。
Do I have to read this whole book? Can’t I just read the table of contents?|この本全部読まないとだめ？目次だけ読むってことは無理かな？

年次 / Annual, Yearly / ねんじ
年次〜;
年次データ; annual data;
年次コンファレンス; annual conference;
年次レポート; annual report
Let’s decide on this year’s annual project.|今年の年次けいかくを立てましょう。
How much annual paid leave do you get, Mariko?|マリ子は年次有きゅう休か、何日もらえるの？
We write an annual report on how much our Japanese language students are improving.生徒たちの日本語がどれだけ上達したかに関する年次報告書を作成する。

死ぬ / To Die / しぬ
〜が死ぬ;
父が死ぬ; Father dies; 
自分が死ぬ; I will die, one's own death;
人が死ぬ; a person dies
〜死ぬ; 
なぜ死ぬ; Why die?; 
いずれ死ぬ; to die sooner or later; 
やがて死ぬ; to die before long, to eventually die
〜は死ぬ; 
人は死ぬ; people will die; 
自分は死ぬ; I will die; 
オレは死ぬ; I will die
I thought I would die.|死ぬかと思いました。
My grandmother died from cancer.|わたしのそ母は、がんで死にました。
I promise you that I will never die.|私は絶対に死なないと約束するよ。

死体 / Dead Body, Corpse, Cadaver / したい
死体を〜; 
死体をかくす; to hide a dead body; 
死体を見る; to view the body; 
死体を見つける; to find a dead body
死体が〜; 
死体が上がる; to have a corpse rise in a body of water;
死体が見つかる; to find a dead body; 
死体がある; there is a dead body
Who found the dead body?|だれが死体を見つけましたか。
Who did you say was arrested for abandoning a corpse?|だれが死体いきのようぎでたいほされたって？
The first time I saw a dead body was when I was six years old.|私が初めて死体を見たのは、六歳の時です。

死亡 / Mortality, Death / しぼう
〜の死亡; 
父の死亡; Father's death;
母の死亡; Mother's death; 
人の死亡; person's death
死亡〜;
死亡リスク; risk of death;
死亡フラグ; death flag (literary device), famous last words; 
死亡データ; mortality data
I heard that when you eat a lot of vegetables you can lower your risk of mortality.|やさいをたくさん食べると、死亡リスクがへるそうです。
What is the cause of Mr. Yamada's younger brother's death?|山田さんの弟さんの死亡のげんいんはなんですか？
Since the invention of the cheeseburger, mortality rates in all first-world nations have tripled.|チーズバーガーの発明により、全先進国の死亡率が三倍に跳ね上がった。

羊 / Sheep / ひつじ
羊を〜; 
羊をかぞえる; to count sheep;
羊をかう; to buy a sheep, to raise a sheep; 
羊をさがす; to search for a sheep
羊の〜; 
羊の毛; wool; 
羊の肉; mutton, sheep's meat;
羊のむれ; flock of sheep
I got to feed the sheep at the zoo.|どうぶつえんで、羊にえさをやりました。
Anything can happen at any moment, so if you want a sheep, get it.|いつ何がおこるか分からないんだから、羊がかいたいなら、かいたいと思ったときにかった方がいいよ。
Do you think sheep feel embarrassed when they have their wool sheared off?|毛を刈られた時、羊も恥ずかしい思いをしていると思う？

羊毛 / Wool / ようもう
羊毛の〜; 
羊毛のセーター; wool sweater;
羊毛のじゅうたん; wool rug;
羊毛の色;the color of the wool
羊毛を〜; 
羊毛を用いる; to utilize wool; 
羊毛をまぜる; to mix wool; 
羊毛をつかう; to use wool
I got a wool blanket as a Christmas present.|クリスマスプレゼントに、羊毛のブランケットをもらいました。
I'm so happy to have come across this wool felt doll.|この羊毛フェルトの人形に出会えて本当によかった。
Woolen mittens are great for stuffing pillows.|羊毛の手袋は、枕の詰め物に適している。

血 / Blood / ち
血が〜;
血がまじる; to be muddied with blood, to be bloodstained;
血が出る; to bleed; 血がながれる; to bleed, to have blood flowing
血〜;
血だらけ; covered in blood, bloody; 
血しぶき; spray of blood; 
血まみれ; to be covered in blood
血を〜; 
血をはく; to cough up blood, to spit out blood; 
血をながす; to shed blood, to spill blood; 
血を見る; to see blood
There is blood on your shirt.|シャツに血がついていますよ。
Why does my bum bleed when I poop?|うんちをするときにおしりから血が出るのはなぜなんだ！
I like steak when it still has lots of blood in it.|血が滴るぐらいのステーキが好きです。

出血 / Bleeding, Bleed / しゅっけつ
出血が〜; 
出血が止まる; to stop bleeding; 
出血がつづく; the bleeding continues; 
出血がある; there is bleeding
出血を〜; 
出血を止める; to stop the bleeding;
出血をおこす; to cause bleeding;
出血をする; to bleed
The bleeding won’t stop.|なかなか出血が止まりません。
Tofugu is providing you with a huge discount!|トーフグはぜっさん出血大サービス中です。
I think my nose would stop bleeding if I kept my finger out of it.|指を抜いていれば、鼻からの出血は止まると思います。

国 / Country, Nation / くに
国が〜;
国がある; there is a country; 
国がする; done by the government;
国が行う; carried out by the government
国の〜;
国の文化; national culture; 
国の人; people of the country;
国のあり方; current state of the nation, how the nation ought to be
〜の国; 
他の国; another country; 
それぞれの国; each country; 
自分の国; one's own country
Which country are you from?|お国はどちらですか。
I thought this country was safe, but now I'm disappointed.|この国は安全だと思っていたのに、がっかりです。
In my country, there is a shop that sells apple pies made by a cat.|私の国には、猫が焼くアップルパイのお店がある。

中国 / China / ちゅうごく
中国に〜; 
中国にいる; to be in China;
中国にある; to be in China; 
中国に行く; to go to China
中国の〜; 
中国の山; the mountains of China;
中国の人; person from China; 
中国のとなり; next to China
中国〜; 
中国っぽい; China-like; 
中国らしい; very Chinese, typical of China; 
中国人; Chinese person
Next month I’m traveling to China on business.|来月は、出ちょうで中国に行きます。
During winter break, I watched the meteor shower in China.|冬休みに、中国でりゅう星ぐんを見ました。
Why did Japanese people stop calling China "Shina" and start calling it "Chuugoku?"|どうして日本人は中国を支那と呼ぶことをやめて中国と呼び始めたんだろう。

天国 / Kingdom Of Heaven, Heaven, Paradise / てんごく
天国の〜;
天国の入り口; the entrance to heaven;
天国のおじいちゃん; grandpa in heaven;
天国のおばあちゃん; grandma in heaven
天国に〜;
天国に行ける; to be able to go to heaven; 
天国に行く; to go to heaven; 
天国にいる; to be in heaven
Poochie is definitely in heaven.|ポチはきっと天国にいるんだよ。
I am so disappointed to learn the Kingdom of Heaven is that kind of place.|天国がこんなとこだったなんて、本当にがっかりです。
Let’s smoke cigarettes in Heaven.|タバコを天国で吸いましょう。

全国 / Nationwide, National, Countrywide / ぜんこく
全国に〜; 
全国にある; to be nationwide; 
全国にいる; to be nationwide;
全国に広がる; to spread throughout the nation
全国の〜; 
全国のコンビニ; convenience stores nationwide;
全国のみなさん; everyone in the country;
全国の大学; universities nationwide
全国〜; 
全国レベル; national level; 
全国ツアー; nationwide tour; 
全国大会; a national convention, a national sports competition
The flu is spreading nationwide.|全国でインフルエンザがはやっています。
Which prefecture is the largest producer of apples nationwide?|リンゴのしゅうかくりょうが全国で一ばん多いけんはどこですか？
He was involved in a nationwide cyber bullying scandal.|彼は全国規模のサイバーいじめのスキャンダルに関与していた。

四国 / Shikoku (4 Countries) / しこく
四国に〜; 
四国にいる; to be in Shikoku; 
四国に行く; to go to Shikoku;
四国にある; to be in Shikoku
四国の〜; 
四国の海; ocean by Shikoku;
四国の人々; people of Shikoku;
四国のうどん; the udon in Shikoku
I still haven’t been to Shikoku.|四国にはまだ行ったことがありません。
Have you gotten used to life in Shikoku yet?|四国での生活にはなれましたか？
I was traveling through Shikoku to learn how to make the best udon noodles.|最高の饂飩の作り方を求めて、四国を旅していた。

外国 / Foreign Country, Other Countries, Overseas / がいこく
外国の〜;
外国の人; foreign person; 
外国の大学; foreign university; 
外国の文化; foreign culture
外国〜; 
外国メディア; foreign media;
外国人; foreign person; 
外国ぐらし; living in a foreign country
外国に〜;
外国に行く; to go to a foreign country; 
外国にある; to be in a foreign country;
外国にいる; to be in a foreign country
We haven’t gone to other countries yet.|わたしたちはまだ外国に行ったことがありません。
This is my first time making an overseas call.|外国へでんわをするのはこれがはじめてです。
I wouldn’t mind being a celebrity if I was in a foreign country.|もし外国にいるなら、有名人になっても構わない。

外国人 / Foreign Person, Foreigner / がいこくじん
外国人に〜; 
外国人に学ぶ; to learn from a foreign person; 
外国人になる; to become a foreign person; 
外国人にきく; to ask a foreign person
外国人の〜; 
外国人の友人; foreign friend, friend of a foreign person; 
外国人の文化; foreign person's culture;
外国人のくらし; life of a foreign person
Today, I went shopping with my foreign friends.今日、外国人の友だちと、かいものに行きました。
That foreigner's eyes were bloodshot.|その外国人の目は血走っていた。
No, I’m not racist. I’ve met every kind of foreign person on the planet and I just hate each of them equally.|いいえ、私は人種差別主義者ではありません。世界中の全ての外国人に会って、それぞれ個人的に嫌いになっただけです。

米国 / United States Of America, United States, America, USA / べいこく
米国に〜; 
米国にある; to be in America; 
米国にいる; to be in America; 
米国に行く; to go to America
米国の〜;
米国のピザ; American pizza; 
米国の人々; American people;
米国の大学; American university
Do you know the name of the president of the United States?|米国の大とうりょうの名まえを知っていますか。
I never expected anything from the US anyways.|米国には元々何もきたいなんてしてなかったよ。
Many people immigrate to the United States solely for the super-size combos at McDonald’s.|多くの人は、単にマクドナルドのスーパーサイズコンボのために米国に移住する

夜 / Night, Evening / よる
夜の〜; 
夜の町; the town at night;
夜の月; moon of the night; 
夜のしごと; night work
夜に〜;
夜になる; to become nighttime; 
夜に行う; to carry out at night; 
夜にする; to do at night
〜の夜; 
冬の夜; winter night; 
今日の夜; tonight; 
平日の夜; weeknight
I went to a party last night.|きのうの夜、パーティーに行きました。
Last night, I was so excited that I barely slept.|きのうの夜は、こうふんしてほとんどねむれませんでした。
Night is the time when monsters crawl up through the floor to have tea parties under my bed.|夜には、モンスターたちが床から這い上がり、私のベッドの下でお茶会を開くんだよ。

今夜 / Tonight, This Evening / こんや
今夜は〜; 
今夜はねる; to sleep tonight, going to sleep tonight; 
今夜は考える; to think about something tonight; 
今夜はいる; to be somewhere tonight, to be in tonight
今夜の〜; 
今夜のおかず; tonight's dish to go with rice; 
今夜の月; tonight's moon; 
今夜のメニュー; tonight's menu
Would you like to go out for drinks with me tonight?|今夜、いっしょにのみに行きませんか。
The exam is coming up tomorrow, so I am gonna burn the midnight oil tonight.|明日しけんがあるから、今夜はてつ夜でがんばります。
I feel like eating chicken wings for dinner tonight.|今夜は晩ご飯に手羽先が食べたい気分だ。

姉妹 / Sisters / しまい
姉妹が〜; 
姉妹が亡くなる; sisters pass away;
姉妹が死亡する; a sister dies; 
姉妹がいる; to have sisters
姉妹の〜;
姉妹の父; father of sisters; 
姉妹の姉; elder sister;
姉妹の子; sisters' children
姉妹〜; 
姉妹サイト; sister site; 
姉妹グループ; sister group; 
姉妹大学; sister university
〜姉妹; 
兄弟姉妹; brothers and sisters; 
なかよし姉妹; sisters that get along;
二人姉妹; two sisters
Those two sisters look so alike.|二人の姉妹はとてもよくにています。
Hey, you two kinda look like sisters.|何か、二人って姉妹みたいだよね。
There is a bond between sisters that isn’t shared between girls who are just friends.|単なる女友達には無い絆が、姉妹の間にはある。

妹 / Younger Sister, Little Sister / いもうと
妹が〜; 
妹が来る; younger sister is coming; 
妹が生まれる; younger sister is born; 
妹がいる; to have a younger sister
妹の〜; 
妹のはなし; younger sister's talk, story about a younger sister;
妹の子; younger sister's child; 
妹の死; younger sister's death
妹〜; 
妹たち; younger sisters; 
妹ちゃん; Younger Sister; 
妹さん; Younger Sister
Who is Tanaka’s younger sister?|田中さんの妹はどの人ですか。
I feel betrayed by my little sister.|妹にうら切られた気分です。
My younger sister just cut off all of her hair so she could make wigs for her Barbie dolls.|私の妹は、バービー人形にウィッグを作ってあげたいからと、自分の髪の毛を切った。

お姉さん / Older Sister, Miss / おねえさん
お姉さんが〜; 
お姉さんがいる; Older Sister is here;
お姉さんがくれる; Older Sister gives me something; 
お姉さんがする; Older Sister does something
お姉さんの〜; 
お姉さんのネックレス; Older Sister's necklace; 
お姉さんの声; Older Sister's voice; 
お姉さんのかお; Older Sister's face
Midori’s older sister is wearing glasses.|みどりちゃんのお姉さんはめがねをかけています。
I totally thought you were Viet's older sister, but you aren't, eh?|あなたのこと、てっきりビエトくんのお姉さんだと思ってたんですが、ちがったんですね。
My older sister thinks that buying a motorcycle will help her get a boyfriend.|私のお姉さんは、バイクを買うことが彼氏を見つけることに繋がると考えています。

店 / Shop, Store / みせ
店で〜; 
店でたべる; to eat at the shop;
店ではたらく; to work at the shop;
店でつかう; to use at the shop
〜の店;
他の店; another shop; 
自分の店; one's own shop; 
行きつけの店; one's favorite restaurant
店を〜; 
店をする; to run a store; 
店を出る; to leave the shop; 
店を出す; to open a shop
店に〜;
店にいる; to be in the shop;
店に行く; to go to the shop; 
店に入る; to go in the shop
店が〜; 
店がならぶ; to have a row of shops;
店がある; there is a shop; 
店ができる; a shop is established
店の〜; 
店の人; shopkeeper, shop employee; 
店の入り口; shop entrance; 
店の外; outside the shop
お店; 
お店; shop
Please draw a map from the station to the store.|えきからその店までの地図をかいてください。
The restaurant is already fully booked for the rest of the year.|この店は年内はすでにずっとよやくでいっぱいだ。
You’re going to love this shop. They have the best meatloaf in the world.|この店のこと絶対気に入るぜ。世界一うまいミートローフがあるんだよ。

明るい / Bright, Cheerful / あかるい
〜が明るい;
外が明るい; it is bright outside; 
色が明るい; the color is bright;
空が明るい; the sky is bright
明るい〜; 
明るい光; bright light;
明るいところ; a bright place; 
明るい色; a bright color
〜明るい; 
とても明るい; very bright; 
いつも明るい; always bright;
少し明るい; a little bright
This room is bright.|このへやは明るい。
Everyone at Tofugu is cheerful.|トーフグのみんなは明るい。
Your future is still bright, Grandpa.|未来はまだまだ明るいよ、おじいちゃん。

不明 / Unknown, Unclear, Uncertain, Unsure / ふめい
〜不明; 
ソース不明; unknown source;
正体不明; unknown, unidentifiable;
生死不明; unknown if alive or dead
ご不明〜;
ご不明な方; those who are unsure;
ご不明なとき; when unsure;
ご不明な点; questions, unclear points
不明な〜; 
不明なこと; something unclear; 
不明な点; unknown point, unknown aspect; 
不明なまま; remains unknown
The author of this story is unknown.|このはなしの作しゃは不明です。
This milk doesn't have an expiration date on it.|この牛にゅうのしょうみきげんは不明です。
Huh? When you were sleeping you used an onion for a pillow? I don’t really get what you’re saying.|え？寝る時、玉ねぎを枕にしたの？あんたの言ってること、意味不明なんだけど。

東方 / Eastward, Eastern Direction, The East / とうほう
東方の〜;
東方の国; eastern country, country located to the east;
東方の人; people of the East; 
東方の地; land of the East
Apparently this man is from a country in the East.|この男は、東方の国から来たらしい。
The treasure is said to be somewhere in the lands to the east.|その宝は、東方の地のどこかにあるそうだ。
Have you read "The Travels of Marco Polo" by Marco Polo?|マルコ・ポーロの『東方見聞録』はもう読みましたか？

東北 / Tohoku , Tohoku Region, Northeast Region / とうほく
I was volunteering in Tohoku.|東北で、ボランティアをしていました。
I'm living by myself in Tohoku now.|東北で一人ぐらしをしています。
A magnitude 8.9 earthquake slammed into Japan’s northeastern coast.|マグニチュード8.9の地震が、日本の東北地方の海岸を襲った。

中東 / Middle East / ちゅうとう
中東に〜;
中東にある; to be in the Middle East;
中東に多い; there are many in the Middle East;
中東に行く; to go to the Middle East
中東の〜; 
中東の国; Middle Eastern countries; 
中東の人々; people of the Middle East; 
中東の人気スポット; popular spot in the Middle East
I watched the news on the Middle East on TV this morning.|けさ、テレビで中東のニュースを見ました。
You can't help it that you couldn't make it to the wedding because you had to go to the Middle East for an emergency.|きんきゅうじたいで中東に行かなくてはいけなかったんだから、けっこんしきに来れなかったのは仕方がないよ。
What is the most played game in the Middle East?|中東で一番楽しまれているゲームは何ですか？

南東 / Southeast / なんとう
南東の〜; 
南東の角; the southeast corner; 
南東の方向; southeast direction; 
南東の空; southeast sky
南東に〜; 
南東にある; to be located to the southeast;
南東に向かう; to head southeast, to face southeast; 
南東にすすむ; to advance to the southeast
The car continued heading southeast.|車は、南東に向かってすすみました。
I totally thought the sun would set in the southeast today.|てっきり今日は日が南東にしずむもんだとおもっていたよ。
I saw a shooting star in the southeast.|南東の方角に、流れ星を見た。

歩く / To Walk / あるく
〜に歩く; 
同じ方向に歩く; to walk in the same direction;
いつものように歩く; to walk as usual;
いっしょに歩く; to walk together
〜を歩く; 
林の中を歩く; to walk in the forest; 
アスファルトの上を歩く; to walk on the asphalt;
町を歩く; to walk around town
〜で歩く; 
はだしで歩く; to walk barefoot;
二人で歩く; to walk together; 
自分の足で歩く; to walk with one's own feet
I’m planning to walk to school.|学こうまで歩くつもりです。
It's the first time we've walked holding hands in a long time.|あなたと手をつないで歩くなんて、何年ぶりかしら。
I’m so fat that when I walk down the street and step on a penny, I squeeze a booger out of the Queen’s nose.|私はとても太いので、私が道を歩いている時にペニーを踏んだら、女王様の鼻から鼻くそが飛び出ます。

直す / To Fix, To Repair, To Fix Something, To Repair Something / なおす
〜に直す;
きれいに直す; to fix nicely;
ひらがなに直す; to change to hiragana;
早めに直す; to fix earlier than later
〜を直す; 
クセを直す; to fix a habit, to fix a quirk;
どこを直す; Where to fix?;
それを直す; to fix that
My PC broke. Can you fix it?|パソコンがこわれたんですが、直せますか。
You'd better think it through again.|考え直した方がいいですよ。
You don’t need to fix something if it’s not broken.もし壊れていなければ、それを直そうとする必要はないよ。

正直 / Honest, Honestly / しょうじき
正直な〜; 
正直なところ; in all honesty; 
正直な思い; honest thoughts, honest feelings; 
正直な人; honest person
正直に〜; 
正直に生きる; to live honestly;
正直にはなす; to speak honestly;
正直に言う; to speak honestly
正直〜; 
正直びっくりする; to be honestly surprised; 
正直がっかりする; to be honestly disappointed; 
正直おどろく; to be honestly astonished
Kawata is a very honest person.|川田さんは、とても正直な人です。
I like his honesty.|かれの正直なところがすきなんです。
I try to be honest all the time because I’m an underwater-breathing Martian prince and I need to set an example for people.
  僕は水中で息をしている火星からきた王子だし、他の人の模範となる必要があるので、いつも正直でいようと心がけています。

直行 / Nonstop, Direct / ちょっこう 
直行の〜; 
直行のリムジンバス; direct airport shuttle bus;
直行のチャーターフライト; direct charter flight; 
直行のバス; nonstop bus
直行〜;
直行シャトル; direct shuttle; 
直行する; to go directly; 
直行バス; direct bus
〜直行; 
トイレ直行; straight to the toilet; 
シャワー直行; straight to the shower; 
ホテル直行; straight to the hotel
This airplane is nonstop to Tokyo.|このひ行きは、東京に直行します。
Today after the meeting with Japan, I'll go directly to the appointment with Tofugu.|今日は、日本との会ぎの後、トーフグとのアポに直行します。
I’m sorry, I can't talk right now. I’m on a nonstop trip to the bathroom.|ごめんなさい、今は話せません。トイレへ直行しているところなのです。

長い / Long / ながい
〜が長い; 
はなしが長い; story is long, talk is long; 
毛が長い; hair is long; 
ツメが長い; nails are long
長い〜;
長いあいだ; a long interval of time;
長い人生; long life;
長い年月; many years
〜は長い; 
先は長い; long road ahead; 
十年は長い; ten years is long;
人生は長い; life is long
〜長い; 
かなり長い; considerably long;
少し長い; little long; 
とても長い; very long
This movie was long.|このえいがは長かったです。
That lady with long hair standing by the door is the one in charge.|あそこのドアの近くに立ってるかみの長い女性が、たん当しゃの方です。
I'm thinking about breaking my own legs to avoid going long distance running.|長い距離のランニングを避けるため、自分の足の骨を折ってしまおうと思っている。

社長 / Company President, Manager, Director, President Of A Company / しゃちょう
社長に〜;
社長になる; to become company president; 
社長にする; to make president; 
社長にきく; to ask the president
社長の〜; 
社長のはなし; president's talk, president's story; 
社長のことば; the words of the president; 
社長の思い; thoughts of the president
〜社長;
オーナー社長; president and owner; 
ワンマン社長; an autocratic president;
コウイチ社長; President Koichi
社長が〜; 
社長がする; the president does; 
社長が言う; the president says; 
社長がいる; there is a president
社長〜; 
社長さま; president;
社長たち; presidents; 
社長さん; president
〜の社長; 
会社の社長; president of a company;
トーフグの社長; president of Tofugu; 
うちの社長; our president, my president
The company president is in a meeting.|社長は会ぎ中です。
The president of Tofugu is insane to lower the price of that popular service.|あの人気サービスのねだんを下げるなんて、トーフグの社長はどうかしてるよ。
All my coworkers hate my boss, but I just think he’s a little mean.|全社員は社長のことを嫌っているが、私は単に彼は少し意地悪なだけだと思っている。

前 / Front, Before / まえ
前に〜; 
前にある; to be in front; 
前にいる; to be in front; 
前に出る; to go out front, to step forward
前から〜;
前からできる; to have been able to do something from before;
前から来る; to come from the front; 
前から知っている; to know from before
前の〜; 
前の人; the person in front; 
前のはなし; the story before; 
前の車; the car in front
〜前; 
半年前; half a year ago;
一つ前; one before, one previous; 
ねる前; before going to sleep
〜の前; 
みんなの前; in front of everyone; 
店の前; in front of the shop; 
目の前; before one's eyes
In front is a flower shop and next door to it is a fish shop.|前は花やで、花やのとなりはさかなやです。
Every morning I do 500 squats before leaving for work.|毎あさ、会社に行く前に、スクワットを五百回します。
When I’m in front of a red light, I get very excited at the thought of it turning green soon.|赤信号の前にいる時、「もうすぐ青に変わるぞ！」と思うとかなり興奮する。

午前 / AM, Morning, A.M. / ごぜん
午前〜; 
午前午後; morning and afternoon; 
午前7:00; 7 a.m.; 
午前中; during the morning
〜の午前;
平日の午前; weekday morning; 
今日の午前; this morning; 
休日の午前; morning of the holiday
This department store opens at 10:00 am.|このデパートは、午前十じにひらきます。
My son still needs to take a nap in the morning.|わたしのむす子は、まだ午前中にあさねをするひつようがあります。
I’ll be posting telepathically at 9AM today, so if you think of something funny, that was me.|今日は午前9時にテレパシーで投稿する予定にしているので、もし君がその時何か面白いことを考えたら、それは私の仕業だから。

南 / South / みなみ
南に〜; 
南にある; to be located to the south;
南に行く; to go to the south; 
南にすすむ; to advance south
南の〜; 
南の国; southern country; 
南の海; southern sea; 
南の空; southern sky
There is a police station on the south side of the library.|としょかんの南に、交ばんがあります。
Why isn't there a North Japan Railway Company and a South Japan Railway Company, even though there's an East Japan Railway Company and a West Japan Railway Company?
  どうして東日本りょかくてつ道と西日本りょかくてつ道はあるのに、北日本りょかくてつ道と南日本りょかくてつ道はないんだ？|I saw Brad Pitt at the south baseball stadium.|南球場でブラッド・ピットを見た。

後ろ / Behind, Back, Rear / うしろ
後ろに〜; 
後ろにいる; to be behind;
後ろに下がる; to step backwards; 
後ろにある; to be behind
後ろを〜; 
後ろを見る; to look behind, to look back;
後ろを向く; to face the back;
後ろを歩く; to walk behind
後ろの〜; 
後ろの人; the person in the back;
後ろの二人; the two people in the back; 
後ろの車; the car behind
〜の後ろ; 
車の後ろ; behind the car;
耳の後ろ; behind the ear; 
首の後ろ; behind the neck
後ろから〜; 
後ろからおす; to push from behind;
後ろから来る; to come from behind; 
後ろから見る; to look from behind
後ろで〜; 
後ろでする; to do in the back;
後ろでむすぶ; to tie behind; 
後ろで見る; to watch in the back
Please close the door behind you.|あなたの後ろのドアをしめてください。
You must install the child carseat on the rear seat of the car.|チャイルドシートは、かならず後ろのざせきにせっちしてください。
If you turn around to look behind you and then do it again, you’ll see me.|振り返って後ろを見た後、さらにもう一度振り返ったら、僕のことが見えるよ。

後で / After, Afterwards, Later / あとで
後で〜; 
後で見る; to watch later;
後で言う; to say later;
後でする; to do later
Why don’t we have some tea together later?|後でいっしょにお茶でもしませんか。
Don't make me say, "I told you so," later.|後で、「言わんこっちゃない」って言わせないでよ。
After the movie, we headed across town to watch it again in another theater.|その映画を見終わった後で、もう一度それを見るために違う映画館へ向かった。

午後 / PM, Afternoon / ごご
午後に〜; 
午後に行く; to go in the afternoon; 
午後になる; to become afternoon; 
午後にする; to do something in the afternoon
午後の〜; 
午後のスケジュール; afternoon schedule;
午後の2:00; 2:00 p.m.;
午後のおやつ; afternoon snack
〜の午後;
冬の午後; winter's afternoon; 
今日の午後; this afternoon; 
平日の午後; weekday afternoon
午後〜;
午後ティー; afternoon tea; 
午後クラス; afternoon class;
午後3:00; 3:00 p.m.
What are the women going to do tomorrow afternoon?|女の人は、あしたの午後、何をしますか。
What's the closest time in the afternoon that's available for an appointment?|直近の午後で空いているじかんは何じですか？
I have an appointment with my doctor at 3PM to remove an ingrown toenail.|午後三時に、足の巻き爪を取り除くためのお医者さんの予約がある。

思う / To Think / おもう
〜に思う; 
不安に思う; to feel uneasy; 
大切に思う; to value, to cherish; 
ふしぎに思う; to think something strange, to find something mysterious
〜思う; 
そう思う; to think so; 
いつも思う; to always think; 
どう思う; What do you think?
〜と思う; 
お金のためだと思う; to think something is for the sake of money; 
いいことだと思う; to think something is a good thing;
古いものだと思う; to think it is an old thing
I think he’s coming too.|かれも来ると思いますよ。
Do you think I should avoid going to Mexico during hurricane season?|ハリケーンのきせつはメキシコに行くのをさけた方がいいと思いますか。
The simple act of thinking is not illegal, yet.|思うだけならまだ違法じゃないよ。

生活 / Life, Livelihood / せいかつ
生活〜;
生活スタイル; lifestyle; 
生活リズム; the rhythm of one’s daily life;
生活レベル; standard of living
生活を〜; 
生活をする; to live, to make a living;
生活をつづける; to continue living;
生活をおくる; to lead some kind of life
生活の〜;
生活のリズム; the rhythm of one's daily life;
生活のあり方; way of life;
生活のルール; rules of life
〜の生活; 
人々の生活; people's daily lives;
日々の生活; everyday life; 
ふだんの生活; usual lifestyle
〜生活; 
大学生活; university life; 
テント生活; tent life; 
サラリーマン生活; salaryman life
Please tell me the difference between American and Japanese life?|アメリカと日本の生活のちがいをおしえてください。
I want to get back together and live with you again.|あなたとの生活をもう一どやり直したいんです。
I would be very happy if I could watch cartoons and eat marshmallows every day of my life.|毎日の生活でアニメを見ながらマシュマロを食べることができたら、とても幸せです。

海外 / Overseas, Foreign, Abroad / かいがい
海外で〜;
海外でできる; to be able to do overseas, to be established overseas;
海外ではたらく; to work overseas; 
海外で生活する; to live overseas
海外に〜; 
海外に行く; to go overseas; 
海外にいる; to be overseas;
海外に出る; to go overseas
海外の〜; 
海外の会社; overseas company;
海外の大学; overseas university;
海外の人; foreigner
海外〜; 
海外生活; overseas life; 
海外メディア; overseas media; 
海外ドラマ; overseas TV drama
I want to work overseas in the future.|しょう来は、海外ではたらきたいです。
After having worked in the insurance industry for eight years, I went to America to study abroad.|ほけんぎょうかいに八年つとめた後、アメリカへ海外りゅう学しました。
I want to live somewhere overseas, but I hate traveling.|私はどこか海外で住みたいと思っているが、旅行は嫌いだ。

点 / Point, Score, Decimal Point, Viewpoint / てん
〜点; 
そういう点; that kind of point;
この点; this point;
その点; that point
点を〜; 
点をもらう; to receive a point, to receive a score;
点をむすぶ; to connect points; 
点をつける; to grade papers
I have a fever of 38.9 degrees.|ねつが、三十八点九どあります。
Compared to what's in this closet, I have 2.5 times as many clothes scattered around in the other rooms.|このクローゼットにある二点五ばいのりょうのふくが他のへやにもちらばっています。
I agree with your point that the movie was really bad, but I didn’t realize it was such a waste of time until it was over.|あの映画が駄作だったという点ではあなたに同意しますが、時間の無駄だったと気づいたのは映画が終わってからでした。

科学 / Science / かがく
科学の〜; 
科学の本; book on science; 
科学の力; the power of science;
科学のあり方; the state of science
〜科学; 
スポーツ科学; sports science; 
いんちき科学; bogus science;
システム科学; systems science
〜の科学; 
海外の科学; overseas science; 
わが国の科学; the science in our country;
今の科学; the science of now
Her major is science.|かの女のせんもんは、科学です。
Japan is very advanced in the fields of science and technology.|日本は科学ぎじゅつというめんにおいてとてもすぐれています。
Science is really amazing because it allowed us to make mosquito repellent.|我々に蚊除け剤を作らせてくれる科学は、本当に偉大だ。

お茶 / Tea / おちゃ
お茶を〜; 
お茶をのむ; to drink tea; 
お茶を出す; to serve tea; 
お茶を入れる; to make tea
お茶の〜; 
お茶の先生; master of the tea ceremony;
お茶のかおり; smell of tea;
お茶のうまみ; flavor of tea
〜のお茶;
それぞれのお茶; each tea;
他のお茶; other teas;
ペットボトルのお茶; tea in a plastic bottle
お茶〜; 
お茶づけ; rice with tea poured on it (type of dish); 
お茶目; playful, mischievous;
お茶会; tea party, tea ceremony
I didn’t drink tea.|わたしはお茶をのみませんでした。
I want to eat bacon rice covered in tea before I die.|死ぬ前に、ベーコンのお茶づけが食べたい。
I can’t drink tea anymore because it makes me fart.|何故かおならがしたくなるので、もうお茶を飲むことはできない。

茶色 / Brown, Brown Color, Color Brown / ちゃいろ
茶色の〜; 
茶色の目; brown eyes;
茶色の毛; brown hair; 
茶色の犬; brown dog
茶色に〜; 
茶色にかわる; to turn brown;
茶色になる; to become brown; 
茶色に見える; to look brown
〜茶色; 
ごげ茶色; dark brown; 
明るい茶色; bright brown; 
赤茶色; reddish brown
Please color the number that best matches the ★ with brown.|★に入るばんごうを、茶色にぬります。
I'd like to dye my hair light brown, please.|明るい茶色にカラーリングしてください。
All of my white t-shirts have brown armpit stains on them.|私の白いTシャツ全ての脇のところに、茶色のシミがある。

食べる / To Eat / たべる
〜に食べる; 
いっしょに食べる; to eat together;
食べたいときに食べる; to eat when one wants to;
むさぼるように食べる; to eat greedily
〜が食べる; 
自分たちが食べる; for us to eat, we eat; 
人が食べる; the person eats; 
犬が食べる; the dog eats
〜で食べる; 
店で食べる; to eat at the restaurant; 
みんなで食べる; to eat all together;
ミラノで食べる; to eat in Milan
〜を食べる; 
何を食べる; What do you want to eat?;
おいしいものを食べる; to eat something tasty;
ごはんを食べる; to eat a meal
I eat natto every morning.|毎あさ、なっとうを食べます。
I never have enough time to eat healthy foods.|いつも、けんこうにいいものを食べるじかんがないんです。
I like to eat while I’m sleeping. It’s just like sleepwalking, but it’s called sleep-eating.|私は、寝ながら食べるのが好きだ。夢遊病のような感じで、それは夢遊食事病と呼ばれる。

首 / Neck / くび
首の〜; 
首のいたみ; neck pain; 
首のリンパ; lymph nodes in the neck; 
首の後ろ; behind the neck
首に〜; 
首にかける; to hang something around one's neck; 
首にする; to fire someone; 
首になる; to be fired
首を〜;
首をかしげる; to tilt one's head in puzzlement;
首をふる; to shake one's head; 
首を切る; to fire someone, to behead
I’ve been using my computer too much so my neck hurts.|パソコンのしすぎで、首がいたいです。
I cricked my neck in my sleep.|首をねちがえました。
Is the bubonic plague the illness that made people grow boobs on their necks?|腺ペストって、首から胸が生えてくる病気のことですか？

足首 / Ankle / あしくび
足首を〜; 
足首をつかむ; to grab someone's ankle; 
足首をまわす; to circle one's ankles; 
足首をひねる; to twist one's ankle
足首の〜; 
足首の力; ankle strength; 
足首のうごき; ankle movement; 
足首のいたみ; ankle pain
I twisted my ankle.|足首をひねってしまいました。
My right ankle hurts a lot.|右の足首がすごくいたいんです！
I sprained my ankle while running away from a feather floating in the air.|宙に舞う羽から逃げる途中で、足首を捻挫した。

首になる / To Get Fired, To Get Sacked / くびになる
〜を首になる;
しごとを首になる; to be fired from one's job; 
バイトを首になる; to be fired from one's part time job;
会社を首になる; to be fired from the company
I was fired from the company last month.|先月、会社を首になりました。
Of course you would get fired, if you used up the collected money.|しゅう金したお金をつかいこんだら、首になるに決まってるじゃん！
I got sacked yesterday for bringing a marching band into work with me.|マーチングバンドを職場に引き連れてきたことが理由で、私は昨日首になりました。

引き分け / Tie, Draw / ひきわけ
引き分けに〜; 
引き分けにする; to make a tie; 
引き分けになる; to end in a tie; 
引き分けにおわる; to end in a tie
The basketball game was a tie.|バスケのしあいは、引き分けでした。
The battle to determine the best pickup truck in America is currently a draw between Toyota and Ford.|アメリカのベストピックアップトラックをきめるたたかいは、今のところトヨタとフォードの引き分けのじょうたいがつづいている。
I was so upset that our rock-paper-scissors game ended in a three way tie.|私は、じゃんけんが三対三の引き分けに終わったことにとても腹を立てた。

亡くなる / To Pass Away, To Become Deceased, To Die / なくなる
〜で亡くなる; 
パリで亡くなる; to die in Paris; 
ガンで亡くなる; to die of cancer; 
四十二才で亡くなる; to die at forty two years old
〜が亡くなる; 
父が亡くなる; father dies;
母が亡くなる; mother dies;
人が亡くなる; a person dies
〜に亡くなる; 
一月に亡くなる; to die in January;
冬に亡くなる; to die in winter; 
２０１１年に亡くなる; to die in 2011
I heard that Matsumoto passed away.|まつ本さんが、亡くなったそうです。
My younger sister died of pneumonia when she was five.|わたしの妹は、五才のときに、はいえんで亡くなりました。
If my mom passes away, the person who makes food for me will be gone.|もし母さんが亡くなったら、僕の料理を作ってくれる人がいなくなってしまう。

小文字 / Lowercase Letters, Lowercase Characters, Lowercase / こもじ
〜小文字; 
大文字小文字; uppercase lowercase; 
全て小文字; all lowercase; 
半角小文字; half-width lowercase letters
小文字を〜; 
小文字を用いる; to utilize lowercase letters; 
小文字を入力する; to enter lowercase letters;
小文字をつかう; to use lowercase
How do you switch from lowercase to uppercase?|どうやって小文字と大文字を切りかえますか。
Passwords must contain at least one uppercase letter, one lowercase letter and a number.|パスワードには、かならず大文字、小文字、すう字を一つい上つかってください。
Is your email address in all lowercase letters? Is it really? Are you crazy?|君のEメールアドレスって、全部小文字なの？本当に？ちょっとおかしいんじゃないの？

冬休み / Winter Holiday, Winter Break, Winter Vacation / ふゆやすみ
冬休みに〜; 
冬休みになる; to become winter break;
冬休みに入る; to enter winter break;
冬休みに行く; to go during winter break
冬休み〜; 
冬休み中; during winter break; 
冬休みあけ; the end of winter break, right after winter break; 
冬休み前; before winter break
冬休みの〜; 
冬休みのエピソード; anecdotes from winter break; 
冬休みの生活; life during winter break;
冬休みの前; before winter break
During winter break my family stayed in a hotel in the mountains.|冬休みに、かぞくで山の中のホテルにとまりました。
Winter holiday was pretty tough because my sons fight so often at home.|冬休みは子どもたちがいえで兄弟げんかばっかりしていて大へんでした。
During winter vacation, I jogged everyday, all day long.|冬休みは、毎日一日中ジョギングをしていました。

出来る / To Be Able To Do, To Be Ready, To Be Made / できる
〜が出来る; 
赤ちゃんが出来る; to be pregnant; 
スポーツが出来る; to be able to play sports, to be skilled at sports;
見ることが出来る; to be able to see
〜出来る; 
たくさん出来る; to be able to do a lot, to make a lot;
すぐ出来る; to be able to do immediately, to be made immediately;
よく出来る; to be able to do well, to come out well
I was finally able to pass JLPT N1.|やっとJLPTN1にごうかくすることが出来ました。
Dinner's ready!|ディナーが出来たよ。
Mochi are made from rice.|もちは米から出来る。

方言 / Dialect / ほうげん
方言の〜;
方言のアクセント; dialect accent; 
方言の一つ; one of the dialects;
方言のクイズ; dialect quiz
方言で〜; 
方言で言う; to say in a dialect; 
方言ではなす; to speak in a dialect;
方言でしゃべる; to talk in a dialect
方言を〜; 
方言をしゃべる; to speak a dialect; 
方言をはなす; to speak a dialect; 
方言をつかう; to use a dialect
I’m making a dialect dictionary.|方言のじしょを作っています
Damn! My boyfriend's dialect has rubbed off on me.ああっもうっ！かれしの方言がうつっちゃってるずら。
People from the eastern part of my country use such an odd dialect that they are impossible to understand.|私の国の東側出身の人達は変わった方言で喋るので、彼らが何を言っているのか全く分かりません。

東京 / Tokyo, Toukyou / とうきょう
東京に〜; 
東京にいる; to be in Tokyo;
東京にある; to be in Tokyo; 
東京に出かける; to go to Tokyo
東京〜; 
東京タワー; Tokyo Tower; 
東京スカイツリー; 
Tokyo Skytree;
東京ドーム; Tokyo Dome
東京の〜; 
東京の会社; a Tokyo company;
東京の人; a Tokyoite; 
東京の店; a Tokyo shop
東京を〜; 
東京を歩く; to walk around Tokyo; 
東京をおとずれる; to visit Tokyo;
東京を回る; to go around Tokyo
東京が〜; 
東京がきらい; I dislike Tokyo; 
東京がかわる; Tokyo changes; 
東京がすき; I like Tokyo
東京で〜; 
東京であそぶ; to enjoy oneself in Tokyo;
東京で会う; to meet in Tokyo; 
東京で生まれる; to be born in Tokyo
東京は〜; 
東京はたのしい; Tokyo is fun; 
東京はおもしろい; Tokyo is amusing, Tokyo is interesting;
東京は人気; Tokyo is popular
We will take a train from Tokyo station to Nakagawa station, and then we will take a bus from Nakagawa station to Mikan mountain.|東京えきから中川えきまででんしゃで行って、中川えきからみかん山までバスで行きます。
I have to go to Tokyo now, so may I have the bill, please?|今から東京に行かなくてはいけないので、そろそろお会けいおねがいします。
As soon as I arrived in Tokyo, I went to McDonald’s.|東京についてすぐに、マクドナルドに行った。

早口 / Fast Talker, Fast Talking, Fast Speaker, Fast Speaking / はやくち
早口で〜; 
早口でまくし立てる; to rapidly pour out a litany of speech;
早口でしゃべる; to talk quickly; 
早口で言う; to speak quickly
早口に〜; 
早口にまくし立てる; to rapidly pour out a litany of speech;
早口になる; to come to speak quickly;
早口に言う; to say quickly
早口の〜; 
早口の人; fast talking person; 
早口の声; fast talking voice; 
早口のセリフ; fast talking lines
早口〜; 
早口セールスマン; fast talking salesman; 
早口大会; fast talking competition; 
早口ことば; tongue twister
My older brother is a really fast talker.|わたしの兄は、とても早口です。
Why did you say that you love me the most so quickly?|お前のことが一ばん大すきだよって、何でそんなに早口で言ったの？
I’ve never seen such a fast talking baby before.|こんなに早口の赤ん坊なんて見たことないよ。

足りない / Not Enough, Insufficient, Not Sufficient / たりない
〜が足りない; 
お金が足りない; not enough money; 
何かが足りない; something is missing;
メモリーが足りない; not enough memory
I’m ten yen short.|お金が十円足りないんです。
If there is insufficient space, attach a separate sheet with additional information.|もしスペースが足りなければ、べつの用しについきして、それをてんぷしてください。
Bill Gates is my son, but there isn’t enough evidence to prove it yet.|ビル・ゲイツは私の息子なのだが、それを証明するための証拠がまだ足りない。

年上 / Older / としうえ
〜年上; 
三つ年上; three years older;
一つ年上; one year older; 
二つ年上; two years older
年上の〜;
年上の子; an older child; 
年上の友人; an older friend;
年上の人; an older person
年上に〜;
年上になる; to become the older person;
年上に見える; to appear older;
年上にあこがれる; to admire an older person
This is my first date with an older person.|年上の人と、デートするのははじめてです。
Life is unpredictable. It's not a zero percent chance that you will get married with a beautiful older woman.|人生はよそく不かのうだ。お前が年上のび人とけっこんするかのうせいだってゼロパーセントではない。
My dad says that my mom’s mom is older than the pyramids.|お父さんが、お母さんのお母さんはピラミッドよりも年上だと言うんだよ。

世の中 / Society, The World / よのなか
世の中を〜;
世の中をかえる; to change the world; 
世の中を見る; to see the world;
世の中を知る; to know the world
世の中に〜; 
世の中にある; to exist in the world;
世の中に出回る; to arrive on the market, to go around society; 
世の中に広める; to spread in the world
世の中の〜; 
世の中のルール; rules of society; 
世の中のニーズ; the needs of society;
世の中の人; person of society
There are many types of people in the world.|この世の中には、色んな人がいます。
In this society, not knowing the truth is sometimes better.|世の中には、しんじつを知らない方がいいことだってあるんだよ。
We live in a great society where pizza gets to your house before the police.|我々は、警察よりも先にピザが家に到着するような素晴らしい世の中に住んでいる。

代わり / Substitute, Replacement / かわり
お代わり〜; 
お代わりする; to have another helping of food; 
お代わりがある; there is another helping of food; 
お代わりできる; to be able to have another helping of food
〜の代わり; 
人の代わり; substitute for a person; 
自分の代わり; substitute for oneself; 
水の代わり; substitute for water
代わりに〜; 
代わりにする; to have as a substitute; 
代わりになる; to be a substitute; 
代わりにつかう; to use as a substitute
代わりの〜; 
代わりの休み; make-up day off; 
代わりの先生; a substitute teacher;
代わりの人; a substitute
〜代わり; 
メモ代わり; substitute for notepaper, substitute for notes; 
その代わり; instead of that, in exchange; 
あいさつ代わり; instead of a greeting
代わりを〜;
代わりをする; to take someone's place; 
代わりをたのむ; to ask for a replacement; 
代わりをさがす; to search for a replacement
We’re looking for a substitute teacher.|代わりの先生をさがしています
There is no replacement for him anywhere in the world.|この世のどこにも、かれの代わりはいないんです。
I can teach you English and in exchange you can teach me Japanese.|日本語を教わる代わりに、英語を教えることができますよ。

今年 / This Year / ことし, こんねん
今年〜; 
今年生まれる; to be born this year; 
今年やる; to do this year;
今年はじめ; beginning of this year
今年に〜; 
今年に入る; to enter this year; 
今年にかける; to put all one's energy into this year; 
今年になる; to become this year
今年の〜; 
今年の冬; this winter; 
今年のテーマ; this year's theme; 
今年のクリスマス; this year's Christmas
今年から〜; 
今年からする; to do from this year; 
今年からスタートする; to start from this year; 
今年からはじめる; to start from this year
今年で〜; 
今年でおわる; to end this year, to end after this year;
今年でやめる; to quit this year, to quit after this year;
今年で四十二才; forty two years old this year
Where is your family going to go on winter vacation this year, Yamashita?|山下さんのかぞくは、今年の冬休みはどこに行きますか？
The coming-of-age ceremony in Okinawa went wild again this year.|おきなわのせい人しきは今年も大あれだった。
As soon as I got used to writing 2013 as the date for this year, 2014 arrived.|ようやく今年の年を2013年と書くことを覚えたところで、年が2014年に変わった。

代える / To Replace Something, To Substitute Something, To Exchange Something / かえる
〜に代える; 
お金に代える; to change into money;
ことばに代える; to put into words; 
ちがうものに代える; to change into a different thing
〜を代える; 
ピッチャーを代える; to change the pitcher;
水を代える; to change the water;
ことばを代える; to change one's words
The coach is replacing the pitcher, I think.|かんとくは、ピッチャーを代えるだろう。
I usually substitute yogurt for sour cream.|ふだんは、ヨーグルトをサワークリームに代えてつかっています。
I can’t exchange this ring for money.|この指輪をお金に代えることはできません。

年下 / Younger / としした
年下の〜; 
年下の男の子; younger boy; 
年下の子; a younger child; 
年下の人; younger person
〜年下;
一つ年下; one year younger;
三つ年下; three years younger; 
二つ年下; two years younger
Morita has a younger girlfriend.|もり田さんには、年下のかの女がいます。
Koichi is 38 years younger than Arnold Schwarzenegger.|コウイチはアーノルドシュワルツネッガーより三十八才年下だ。
Even though that kid is younger, he’s really mature.|あの子は年下なのにとても大人びている。

向く / To Face, To Turn Toward / むく
〜を向く; 
下を向く; to face downwards; 
ドクターの方を向く; to face the direction of the doctor;
前を向く; to face forward
〜が向く;
目が向く; to turn one's eyes towards something;
気が向く; to feel inclined;
足が向く; head for a place without realizing
〜に向く; 
上に向く; to face upwards; 
同じ方向に向く; to face the same direction;
入り口の方に向く; to face towards the entrance
Turn this way, please.|こっちを向いてください。
This room is facing South, so it gets very sunny.|このへやは、南を向いているので日当たりがいい。
Now, let’s turn toward your dad and ask him why he’s wearing a baby costume.|今度は、お父さんの方を向いて、どうして赤ちゃんの格好をしているのか聞いてみましょう。

東 / East / ひがし
東〜; 
東向き; facing east; 
東どなり; neighbor to the east;
東方向; eastern direction
東に〜; 
東にある; to be located to the east; 
東にすすむ; to advance to the east; 
東に行く; to go to the east
東の〜; 
東の空; eastern sky;
東の方向; eastern direction;
東の方角; easterly direction
Let’s meet in the cafe that's on the east side of the station.|えきの東がわにあるきっ茶店で会いましょう。
Which direction is east?|どっちの方角が東？
I live on the east side of the airport.|空港の東側に住んでいます。

私 / I, Me / わたし, わたくし
私の〜; 
私のビー玉; my marble;
私の父; my father;
私のスマホ; my smartphone
私は〜; 
私は日本人です; I am a Japanese person; 
私はベッドの下です; I am under the bed; 
私はキョウコです; I am Kyoko
Please remove me from your email list.|メーリングリストから私を外してください。
I'm the director of the sales division.|私がえいぎょう部のせきにん者です。
I went to a bar for the first time last night. I feel like I’m slowly becoming an adult.|昨日の夜、バーデビューしちゃった。私もちょっとずつ大人の階段登ってるって感じ？

私生活 / Personal Life, One's Personal Life, Private Life, One's Private Life / しせいかつ
〜の私生活; 
モデルの私生活; model's personal life; 
ふだんの私生活; everyday personal life;
人の私生活; people's personal lives
私生活を〜; 
私生活を見せる; to show one's personal life;
私生活をのぞく; to peek into one's personal life;
私生活を知る; to learn about another's personal life
Koichi's personal life is cloaked in secrecy.|コウイチの私生活は、ひみつのベールにつつまれています。
My immune system has been weaker than most people's since I was born, so I usually wear a mask when I'm on my own.|生まれつき人よりめんえき力が弱いので、私生活ではいつもマスクをしています。
Koichi has a lot of stress from work and his personal life is getting messed up. Could you advise him? I believe he needs someone to listen to him.
  コウイチ、仕事で相当ストレスがたまっているみたいで、私生活が荒れてきてるんだよね。ちょっと相談相手になってあげてくれないかな。誰か聞いてくれる人が必要だと思うんだよね。

私立 / Private / しりつ
私立〜; 
私立大学; private university;
私立女子大; private women's college;
私立カレッジ; private college
私立の〜; 
私立の女子大; private women's college; 
私立の先生; private teacher; 
私立の大学; private university
The private kindergartens are closed on Christmas Day.|私立のようちえんはクリスマスの日はお休みだよ。
Go out of here and walk left along the street until you come to the third intersection and you'll get to the private hospital.|ここを出て、前の通りを左の方へ三つ目の交さ点まで歩くと、その私立病院に着きますよ。
I found out that the guy Koichi secretly met at the cafe was a private detective.|コウイチがカフェでこっそり会っていた男の人は、私立探偵だったということが判明しました。

国宝 / National Treasure, Nic Cage / こくほう
国宝に〜; 
国宝になれる; to be able to become a national treasure; 
国宝にする; to make into a national treasure;
国宝になる; to become a national treasure
If I remember correctly, this is not a national treasure.|私のきおくが正しければ、これは国宝ではありません。
"Why is this vacuum cleaner a national treasure?" "Because Nic Cage used it before."|「どうしてこのそうじきは国宝なんですか？」「ニコラス・ケイジがつかったことがあるからだよ。」
A national treasure is hidden in crabigator.church.|crabigator.churchに国宝が隠されている。

宝くじ / Lottery, Public Lottery, Lottery Ticket / たからくじ
宝くじを〜; 
宝くじをする; to play the lottery; 
宝くじをもらう; to receive a lottery ticket;
宝くじを引く; to draw a lottery ticket
宝くじが〜;
宝くじが当たる; to win the lottery; 
宝くじが外れる; to not win the lottery; 
宝くじがある; there is a lottery ticket
宝くじに〜;
宝くじに外れる; to not win the lottery;
宝くじに当たる; to win the lottery; 
宝くじにチャレンジする; to give the lottery a go
"My little sister won the lottery." "Oh cool! How much?" "10,000 yen."|「妹が宝くじに当たったのよ。」「すごいね！で、いくら？」「一万円。」
It's wishful thinking, but I'll probably win the lottery at some point next year.|きぼうてきかんそくでは、来年あたりに宝くじに当たるはずです。
My dad's secretary won the lottery, but I made a spelling mistake when I posted it on Facebook. Secretary was spelled secretly. It confused people and I got a lot of congrats.
  父親の秘書が宝くじに当たったんだけど、それをフェイスブックに書いた時に秘書を秘密と書き間違えてしまい、みんなが勘違いしてたくさんおめでとうコメントを残してくれました。

一歩 / One Step / いっぽ
一歩も〜; 
一歩も歩けない; cannot walk a step; 
一歩もゆずらない; not give an inch;
一歩も歩かない; not walk a step
一歩〜; 
一歩ごと; at every step, with every step; 
一歩一歩; step by step, one step at a time;
一歩ずつ; one step at a time
I’ve finally taken one step forward toward my dream.|ようやく、ゆめに向かって一歩ふみ出しました。
They say, a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step, right?|千里の道も一歩からって言うでしょ？
It takes courage to take the first step forward.|最初の一歩を踏み出すのに勇気がいる。

三百 / Three Hundred / さんびゃく
三百 + counter; 
三百才; 300 years old;
三百台; 300 units; 
三百人; three hundred people
I have three hundred manga.|まんがを三百さつもっています。
When I was taking a nap, somebody rang the doorbell 300 times.|ひるねをしていた時に、だれかがインターホンを三百回もならした。
One year is three hundred and sixty-five days.|一年は三百六十五日です。

足す / To Add Something / たす
〜に足す; 
これに足す; to add to this; 
２００万円に足す; to add to two million yen; 
ゼロに足す; to add to zero
〜を足す;
四十二を足す; to add forty two; 
用を足す; to go to the bathroom, to take care of business;
水を足す; to add water
Three plus two is five.|三足す二は五です。
Maybe it would be better to add more water to this soup.|このスープ、もう少し水を足した方がいいんじゃないかな。
Can you add a little more to this sentence here?|ここにもう少し文章を書き足すことはできますか？

車両 / Railroad Car, Vehicle, Train Car, Railway Carriage, Railcar / しゃりょう
車両が〜;
車両が止まる; the vehicle stops;
車両がある; there is a vehicle; 
車両が走る; the vehicle runs
車両を〜; 
車両を止める; to stop the vehicle; 
車両を見る; to look at a car;
車両を走行する; to drive the vehicle
車両の〜;
車両のナンバー; vehicle's license plate number; 
車両の走行; driving the vehicle; 
車両のドア; vehicle door
Hi there, I’m examining the railroad cars.|ただいま、車両の点けんをしています。
In Japan, vehicles drive on the left side of the road.|日本では、車両は左がわを走ります。
This railroad car is a women-only carriage.|この車両は女性専用車両です。

早く / Early, Soon, Quickly, Fast / はやく
早く〜; 
早く気づく; to realize early;
早く出かける; to go out early;
早くに会いたい; want to see someone soon
早くに〜; 
早くに亡くす; to lose someone early;
早くに亡くなる; to die early; 
早くに出かける; to go out early
早くから〜;
早くから来る; to come early; 
早くからする; to start doing early; 
早くからいる; to be somewhere since earlier
〜早く; 
もっと早く; more quickly; 
もう少し早く; a little faster, a little sooner; 
できるだけ早く; as soon as possible
Why did you go to school early yesterday?|きのうはどうして早く学校に行きましたか。
Please get plenty of rest and feel better soon!|ゆっくり休んで早くよくなってください。
Eat quickly.|早く食べなさい。

死 / Death / し
〜の死; 
人の死; death of a person; 
ペットの死; death of a pet;
自分の死; my death, one's own death
死の〜; 
死の直前; just before death; 
死のかなしみ; the sorrow of death;
死の谷; Death Valley (place name)
死を〜; 
死をかなしむ; to grieve a death; 
死をむかえる; to meet one's death;
死をとげる; to finish one's life
Their death was too soon.|その死は早すぎました。
People cannot escape death, except for Koichi.|人は死をのがれることはできない…コウイチい外は。
I’m stricken with grief over the death of my pet dog.|愛犬の死に打ちひしがれています。

姉 / Older Sister, Big Sister, Elder Sister / あね
姉の〜;
姉のすがた; the figure of one's sister;
姉の子; sister's child; 
姉のうち; sister's house
〜の姉;
下の姉; the younger of older sisters; 
上の姉; the elder of older sisters;
二人の姉; two sisters
姉が〜; 
姉がくれる; sister gives me;
姉が来る; sister comes; 
姉がいる; to have an older sister
I’m just about to go to my older sister’s house.|姉のいえに行くところです。
I have five times as many books as my older sister does.|わたしは、姉の五ばいのりょうの本をもっています。
My big sister works as a stewardess.|姉はスチュワーデスをしています。

〜室 / Room / しつ
〜室; 
空室; vacant room;
社長室; president's office; 
３０３号室; room 303
Come into the classroom, please.|きょう室に入ってください。
This game is too difficult. I never have enough time to get to room number 1569 in this stage no matter how hard I try.
  このゲーム、むずかしすぎるよ。このめんで、１５６９号室まで行くには、どうがんばってもじかんが足りないんだ。
I was sleeping in the school infirmary.|保健室で眠っていました。

草地 / Meadow, Grassland / くさち
草地に〜;
草地にある; to be in a meadow;
草地に生える; to grow in a meadow; 
草地にいる; to be in a meadow
草地が〜; 
草地がない; there's no meadow;
草地が見える; can see a meadow;
草地がある; there is a meadow
There was a cow walking leisurely in the meadow.|一とうの牛が草地をのんびり歩いていました。
There are a lot of pastures and grasslands in Ireland.|アイルランドには、ぼく草地や草地が多い。
Let’s hide this money in the meadow over there.|この金は、あそこの草地に隠そう。

国王 / King, Monarch, Sovereign / こくおう
国王が〜;
国王がする; the king does; 
国王がいる; there is a king; 
国王が行う; the king carries something out
国王の〜; 
国王の前; in front of the king; 
国王の弟; the king's younger brother; 
国王の名; the king's name
That king is very greedy.|あの国王は、とてもよくばりです。
I'm starting to understand the king.|わたしは、国王のことをじょじょにりかいしてきました。
I became the king as a youth of 18.|18歳という若さで国王になった。

水星 / Mercury / すいせい
水星の〜;
水星のクレーター; Mercury's craters; 
水星の大きさ; the size of Mercury;
水星のそば; near Mercury
Mercury does not have an atmosphere.|水星には大気がありません。
This isn't what I asked for, but I've been homeless for 10 years on Mercury.|こんなはずじゃなかったんですが、もう十年も水星でホームレスをしています。
I can only see Mercury just before sunrise and right after sunset.|水星は、日の出直前、または日没直後しか見ることができない。

金星 / Venus / きんせい
金星を〜;
金星をめざす; to aim for Venus;
金星を見る; to look at Venus;
金星を見つける; to find Venus
金星の〜;
金星の大気; Venus's atmosphere; 
金星のなぞ; the mystery of Venus; 
金星の光; light of Venus
What you see over there is Venus.|あそこに見えているのは、金星です。
Do they have Sports Day in the school on Venus?|金星の学こうには、うんどう会はありますか？
Someday humans will migrate to Venus.|人類はいつか金星に移住することになるだろう。

土星 / Saturn / どせい
土星が〜; 
土星がある; there is Saturn; 
土星が見える; can see Saturn; 
土星が回る; Saturn revolves
土星の〜; 
土星のまわり; around Saturn; 
土星の月; Saturn's moons; 
土星のリング; Saturn's rings
Do you know which one is Saturn?|どれが土星か、分かりますか。
How can I get to Saturn?|土星にはどうやって行けばいいですか？
I’m an alien from Saturn.|私は土星出身の宇宙人です。

活気 / Energy, Liveliness, Vigor, Spirit / かっき
活気に〜; 
活気にみなぎる; to be full of vigor; 
活気につつまれる; to be enveloped in vigor, to be bustling; 
活気にあふれる; to overflow with vigor
活気が〜; 
活気が出る; to liven up;
活気がある; to be lively; 
活気が生まれる; vigor is created
This city is very lively.|この町は、とても活気があります。
Nikka is always full of energy.|ニッカはいつも活気にあふれている。
The market was overflowing with energy.|市場は活気にあふれていた。

地中 / Underground, Subterranean / ちちゅう
地中の〜;
地中のミネラル; underground minerals;
地中の水; underground water; 
地中の音; subterranean sound
地中に〜; 
地中にうめる; to bury underground;
地中にある; to be underground; 
地中にもぐる; to burrow underground
Underground it’s warm in the winter and cold in the summer.|地中は、冬にはあたたかく、なつはつめたいです。
Many of the lakes are connected by subterranean channels.|多くのみずうみは、地中の水ろでつながっています。
What do I need to do to gauge the temperature underground?|地中の温度を測るにはどうすればいいですか。

活用 / Conjugation, Practical Use / かつよう
〜活用; 
データ活用; data utilization;
フル活用; full use;
土地活用; land use, optimal land use
〜の活用;
インターネットの活用; utilizing the Internet;
データの活用; utilizing the data; 
エネルギーの活用; utilizing energy
活用を〜; 
活用をする; to utilize data; 
活用を行う; to put into use; 
活用を考える; to think about how to use something
Today we will learn verb conjugation.|今日は、どうしの活用をべんきょうします。
I make use of small pockets of time and study Japanese on WaniKani.|ちょこっとあいたじかんを活用して、ワニカニで日本ごをべんきょうします。
I don’t know if I can put this data to good use.|このデータをうまく活用して、何かできないかな。

知る / To Know, To Learn, To Find Out / しる
〜を知る; 
大切さを知る; to know the importance, to learn the importance; 
自分を知る; to know oneself;
多くのことを知る; to know many things
〜は知る;
私は知る; I know; 
人は知る; people know;
あなたは知る; you know
Do you know how to reboot the router?|ルーターのさいきどうの仕方を知っていますか？
As you know, Koichi is a robot.|あなたも知っているように、コウイチはロボットです。
I found out about the discovery of a black and white durtle in the newspaper.|新聞で白黒ダートルの発見を知った。

手首 / Wrist / てくび
手首の〜; 
手首の力; wrist strength; 
手首のスナップ; wrist snap (sports); 
手首のいたみ; wrist pain
手首を〜; 
手首をつかう; to use one's wrist; 
手首をまげる; to bend one's wrist;
手首をつかむ; to grab someone's wrist
I fell and twisted my wrist.|ころんで手首をひねった。
Hot oil splashed on my wrist and I got burned.|あぶらが手首にはねてヤケドしてしまった。
My twin sister has a mole on her wrist.|双子の妹には、手首にホクロがあるんだ。

出社 / Going To The Office, Arriving At The Office, Coming To Work / しゅっしゃ
〜の出社; 
早めの出社; arriving at the office earlier than usual; 
朝の出社; going to the office in the morning;
平日の出社; going to the office on a weekday
出社を〜; 
出社をする; to go to the office;
出社をサポートする; to support going in to the office; 
出社をしない; to not go to the office
出社〜; 
出社時間; time for reporting to work;
出社予定; schedule for going to the office; 
出社前; before going to the office
Today I arrived at the office at 8 o'clock.|今日は、八時に出社しました。
How do you spend your time before going to work?|出社前って、どんな風にすごしてますか？
They should be at work by now, though.|もう出社しているはずなのに。

切れる / To Be Cut, To Snap, To Expire, To Run Out / きれる
〜切れる; 
よく切れる; to be cut well; 
少し切れる; to be cut a little; 
すぐ切れる; to snap easily, to lose one's temper easily
〜が切れる;
力が切れる; to run out of strength;
糸が切れる; a thread snaps, to be out of thread;
あたまが切れる; to be quick-witted, to get a cut on one's head
〜に切れる; 
きれいに切れる; to be cut cleanly; 
上手に切れる; to be cut skillfully; 
かんたんに切れる; to be easily cut, to lose one's temper easily
The tape was cut.|テープが切れてしまいました。
I feel lonely when I hear the sound of the phone being cut off.|でんわが切れるおとをきくとさみしくなる。
The thread snapped.|糸が切れてしまいました。

行う / To Carry Something Out, To Perform Something / おこなう
〜を行う; 
チェックを行う; to perform a check; 
トレーニングを行う; to carry out training; 
サポートを行う; to carry out support services
〜で行う; 
インドで行う; to carry out in India;
大学で行う; to carry out at a university;
パソコン上で行う; to carry out on the computer
As long as it doesn't rain, we intend to hold the fireworks display on July 4th.|雨さえなければ、七月四日に花火大会を行うつもりです。
Apparently the students are holding a regional cherry blossom tour in May of next year.|来年の五月に学生が地方のさくらめぐりを行うらしいです。
Sayaka usually performs the udon noodle cutting, however she's on vacation and won't be around for a while, so I've ended up having to do it, but it's just not going well.
  いつもはサヤカがうどん切りを行うのだが、休みをとってしばらくはいないので、私がそれを行わなければならなくなったけど、どうもうまくいかない。

四十二 / Forty Two, The Answer / よんじゅうに
四十二 + counter; 
四十二回; forty two times;
四十二才; 42 years old;
四十二人; forty two people
I took a forty-two day trip around Southeast Asia.|とうなんアジアを、四十二日かんりょこうしました。
The French gourmet had 42 plates of Sara udon in May only.|フランス人グルメは五月だけでさらうどんを四十二さらたべた。
My grandma bought forty-two rolls of toilet paper.|そぼがトイレットペーパーを四十二ロールもかってきた。

点ける / To Turn Something On, To Switch Something On, To Light Something Up / つける
〜を点ける; 
火を点ける; to light a fire; 
テレビを点ける; to turn on the TV; 
ライトを点ける; to turn on the light
Turn on the light.|電気を点けてくれ。
I don't know how to turn on the radio.|ラジオの点け方が分かりません。
Can you turn on the TV?|テレビを点けてもらえますか。

広がる / To Spread Out, To Extend, To Stretch / ひろがる
〜が広がる; 
うまみが広がる; the flavor spreads;
海が広がる; the ocean spreads out; 
チャンスが広がる; chances are better
〜に広がる; 
前に広がる; to spread out in front;
全体に広がる; to spread throughout;
全国に広がる; to spread nationwide
Sorry, my jeans won’t allow my legs to spread any further.|ごめんなさい。ジーンズのせいで私の足はこれ以上広がりません。
This wildfire might spread to the state of Oregon by the end of this week.|この山火じは、今しゅうまつにもオレゴンしゅうまで広がってしまうかもしれない。
The lavender field stretched out as far as the eye could see.|見わたす限りラベンダ畑が広がっていた。

生える / To Grow, To Spring Up, To Sprout, To Come Out / はえる
〜に生える; 
すずしいところに生える; to grow in cool places; 
林の中に生える; to grow in a forest; 
まばらに生える; to grow sparsely
〜が生える; 
コケが生える; moss grows; 
木が生える; a tree grows;
毛が生える; hair grows
My beard grows quickly.|あごひげがよく生えます。
"Weeds grow," is Japanese Internet slang used when you think something's funny. It started because "w" (lol) looks like weeds.
  「くさ生える」とは、おもしろいとおもったときにつかう日本のネットスラングで、「w」をくさに見立てたことからつかわれはじめました。
Do mushrooms grow in places like this?|こんなところにキノコが生えるのかね。




















