大文字 / Uppercase Letters, Capital Letters, Uppercase / おおもじ
大文字で〜; 
大文字ではじめる; to begin with a capital letter; 
大文字でかく; to write in capital letters;
大文字で入力する; type in upper case, type in capital letters
大文字に〜;
大文字にかえる; to change to upper case; 
大文字になる; to become upper case; 
大文字にする; to capitalize
Please capitalize the first letter.|さいしょの字は、大文字でかいてください。
Please rewrite the title in uppercase letters.|タイトルを大文字でかき直してください。
For some reason I like uppercase more than lowercase.|何故だかわからないけど、小文字より大文字の方が好きです。

耳打ち / Whisper In Ear, Whisper In One's Ear, Whisper In Someone's Ear / みみうち
耳打ちを〜; 
耳打ちをする; to whisper into someone's ear; 
耳打ちをしてくれる; to receive a whisper in the ear; 
耳打ちをしている; to be whispering into an ear
He secretly whispered in my ear.|かれは、わたしにこっそり耳打ちしました。
I happened to witness Koichi whispering something in Nikka's ear during the meeting.|ミーティングのときに、コウイチがニッカになにか耳打ちしてるのをみてしまった。
I told him to whisper something sexy in my ear and he said, "Do you like tapes and CDs?"|私が彼に、何かセクシーな言葉を耳打ちしてというと、彼は「テープやCDは好きかい？」と囁いてくれた。

見分ける / To Distinguish, To Tell Apart, To Recognize / みわける
見分ける〜; 
見分けるポイント; points to distinguish by; 
見分ける力; the ability to distinguish; 
見分けるこつ; the trick to telling something apart
〜で見分ける; 
どこで見分ける; how to tell the difference; 
色で見分ける; to distinguish by color; 
形で見分ける; to distinguish based on shape
〜を見分ける;
人を見分ける; to distinguish between people;
色を見分ける; to distinguish between colors; 
ちがいを見分ける; to recognize the differences
I can’t tell whether it’s real or fake.|本ものかにせものか見分けられない。
Is there a way to find out if my significant other is a psychopath?|こい人がサイコパスかどうか見分ける方ほうはありますか？
We should have put collars on our dogs, because now it's difficult to tell which one is mine and which one is yours.|首輪をつけておくべきだったよね。だって、どっちの犬がどっちの犬か見分けるのが難しくなっちゃったよ。

仕方がない / Can't Be Helped, It's No Use, There's No Other Way / しかたがない
〜は仕方がない; 
それは仕方がない; that cannot be helped; 
ミスは仕方がない; mistakes cannot be helped; 
これは仕方がない; this cannot be helped
If he’s angry, it can’t be helped.|かれがおこるのは、仕方がないよ。
There's no use in just crying.|泣いてばかりいても仕方がないよ。
You’re really hopeless!|お前は本当に仕方がないやつだ！

写る / To Be Photographed, To Be In A Photograph / うつる
〜が写る; 
人が写る; to have a person appear in a photograph, to have a person reflected; 
かおが写る; to have a face appear in a photograph, to have a face reflected; 
ものが写る; to have something appear in a photograph, to have something reflected
〜に写る; 
きれいに写る; to come out beautifully in a photo; 
レントゲンに写る; to appear in an X-ray;
カメラに写る; to appear in the camera
Is your brother in these pictures?|あなたのお兄さんは、このしゃしんに写っていますか。
Among the 500 pictures I took this year, 103 of them had my father who had died last year in them.|今年とった五百まいの写しんの内、なんと百三まいの写しんに去年しんだ父のすがたが写っていた。
The guy in this picture was my first kiss.|この写真に写っている男の人は、私のファーストキスです。

文化 / Culture / ぶんか 
文化〜; 
文化人; cultured person, highly educated person; 
文化ホール; cultural hall, auditorium; 
文化センター; a culture center, a civic center
文化を〜; 
文化をもつ; to have culture; 
文化を学ぶ; to study culture;
文化を知る; to know culture
〜文化;
外国文化; foreign culture;
食文化; food culture; 
生活文化; culture of everyday life
I’m interested in Japanese culture.|日本の文化にきょうみがあります。
Have you adapted to the culture of this country yet?|この国の文化にはなれましたか？
Is cosplaying part of Japanese culture?|コスプレは日本の文化の一つですか？

地 / Earth, Ground, Land / ち
〜の地; 
あこがれの地; a place of longing, a Mecca;
はじまりの地; the place where it all began, place of origin; 
それぞれの地; each place, each respective place
〜地; 
その地; that land; 
中心地; center, epicenter; 
この地; this land
One leaf fell lightly to the ground.|一まいのはっぱが、ひらりと地におちた。
Koichi used to be a big shot, but his reputation hit rock bottom after he lost a battle against a wild boar.|コウイチはむかしはおおものだったけど、イノシシとのたたかいにまけてから、ひょうばんが地におちたよね。
And yet, Koichi himself remains charmingly down-to-earth.|しかし、コウイチ氏は意外と地に足をしっかりつけ続けています。

地下 / Underground, Basement, Cellar / ちか 
〜の地下; 
デパートの地下; department store basement;
ビルの地下; building basement; 
ホテルの地下; hotel basement
地下に〜; 
地下にもぐる; to go underground; 
地下にある; to be underground;
地下にいる; to be underground
地下〜; 
地下トンネル; underground tunnel;
地下室; a basement, a cellar;
地下水; groundwater
There is a restroom in the basement of this building.|このたてものの地下に、トイレがあります。
I ate a lot of food samples at the food section of the department store basement.|デパ地下でたくさんし食をしました。
The Apocalypse is coming soon so I’m building an underground cellar.|ヨハネの黙示録がもうすぐ実現されるから、私は地下室を建設しているのだよ。

土地 / Land / とち
土地の〜;
土地の形; land shape;
土地の人; local resident, native of the area;
土地の活用; land use, land improvement
土地を〜; 
土地を見る; to look at land;
土地をもつ; to own land; 
土地をさがす; to look for land
土地〜; 
土地えらび; choosing a plot of land;
土地活用; land use, optimal land use;
土地不足; land shortage
〜の土地;
自分の土地; one's own land;
他の土地; other land; 
他人の土地; other people's land
This isn’t your land.|ここは、あなたの土地ではありません。
Koichi owns a vast tract of land in Minecraft.|コウイチはマインクラフトに広大な土地をもっている。
If I had some land of my own, I’d finally get my own bedroom.|もし自分の土地があれば、ようやくそこに自分のベッドルームを手に入れることができるぜ！

地図 / Map / ちず
地図を〜; 
地図を見る; to look at a map; 
地図を広げる; to spread out a map; 
地図を作る; to make a map
地図〜; 
地図づくり; mapmaking; 
地図上; on the map; 
地図データ; map data
〜の地図; 
下の地図; the map below; 
宝の地図; treasure map;
町の地図; map of the town
I got out the map on my smartphone.|スマートフォンで地図を出しました。
I walked around Tokyo with a map.|地図をかた手に東京を歩きました。
Teacher, if you forget your world map I have one tattoo'd on my forehead.|先生、もし世界地図を忘れたのなら、私の額にタトゥーの世界地図がありますよ。

両手 / Both Hands, Both Arms / りょうて
両手で〜; 
両手でつかむ; to grab with both hands; 
両手でもつ; to hold with both hands; 
両手で作る; to make with both hands
両手に〜; 
両手にある; to have in both hands; 
両手にもつ; to hold in both hands; 
両手にかかえる; to carry in both hands
両手を〜; 
両手をのばす; to extend both hands; 
両手を広げる; to spread both hands; 
両手を上げる; to raise both hands
They raised both hands and shouted banzai.|両手を上げて、バンザイをしました。
The girl spread her arms and stretched.|女の子は両手を広げてストレッチをした。
A balanced diet is a chocolate cookie in both hands.|バランスの良い食事とは、両手にチョコレートクッキーを持つことです。

両日 / Both Days / りょうじつ
両日とも〜; 
両日とも４:00まで; until 4:00 on both days; 
両日とも休日; both days are holidays;
両日とも雨; rain on both days
I’ll be in a meeting both days.|両日とも、会ぎが入っています。
The tofu festival had good weather for both days.|とうふまつりは、両日ともせい天にめぐまれた。
I attended the iPad lecture session on both days, but I still have no clue how to use it.|iPadの使い方についての講義に両日とも参加したが、まだ使い方が分からない

両方 / Both, Both Sides, Both Ways / りょうほう
両方を〜; 
両方をもつ; to hold both;
両方を行う; to carry out both;
両方をする; to do both
両方の〜; 
両方の目; both eyes; 
両方のバランス; the balance of both; 
両方の手; both hands
My older and younger sisters both live in Osaka.|姉も妹も、両方とも大さかにすんでいます。
You've got time, so why don't you try it both ways?|じかんはあるんだから、両方やってみたら？
Nope. They’re both mine.|ダメだよ！両方とも僕のだよ。

全て / All, Entire, Everything / すべて
全ての〜; 
全ての国; all countries;
全ての人々; all of the people;
全ての人; all people
全てを〜; 
全てを知る; to know all; 
全てを行う; to carry out all;
全てを見る; to see all
Everything went smoothly.|全てうまく行きました。
I am sorry, but all the seats are fully occupied at the moment, so...|申しわけございませんが、げんざい全てのおせきがうまっているじょうきょうでして...。
I was the first to do it. Wikipedia copied my entire homework assignment afterwards.|僕が先だよ。ウィキペディアが僕の宿題を全て真似したんだ。

全力 / Full Effort, Every Effort, Best Effort, Full Power / ぜんりょく
全力を〜; 
全力をあげる; to make utmost efforts; 
全力を出す; to put forth one's best effort; 
全力をつくす; to use all one's strength
全力で〜;
全力で走る; to run at full speed; 
全力でサポートする; to support with all one's effort; 
全力で止める; to make every effort to stop
I ran with all my might to the station.|えきまで、全力で走りました。
That Chinese woman tried her best to persuade the prince to marry her, but she failed.|その中国人の女は、王子が自分とけっこんしてくれるよう全力でせっとくしたが、しっぱいにおわった。
That zombie is using up all its strength trying to come back from the dead.|そのゾンビは、死から蘇ろうと全力を尽くしていた。

全日本 / All Japan, All Of Japan / ぜんにほん, ぜんにっぽん
全日本の〜; 
全日本のエース; all-Japan ace; 
全日本のメンバー; all-Japan members;
全日本のコーチ; all-Japan coach
全日本〜;
全日本プロレス; all-Japan wrestling; 
全日本チャンピオン; all-Japan champion; 
全日本大会; all-Japan tournament
This is a picture of a Japanese National Volleyball tournament match.|これは、全日本バレーボール大会のしあいの写しんです。
Koichi is in Japan to watch the All Japan Kendo Championships.|コウイチは、けん道の全日本せん手けんのしあいを見るために、日本に行っています。
All of Japan is covered in whipped cream.|全日本が生クリームに包まれている。

安全 / Safety, Safe / あんぜん
安全な〜; 
安全な国; a safe country; 
安全なところ; a safe place;
安全な水; safe water
安全に〜;
安全になる; to become safe;
安全にできる; to be able to make safe; 
安全に行う; to carry out safely
〜の安全; 
生活の安全; safe living;
人々の安全; people's safety;
食の安全; food safety
If I come here, I’m safe.|ここまで来れば、安全です。
I don't mind if we're a little slow, so just please drive safely.|ゆっくりでかまいませんので、安全うんてんでおねがいします。
My motto is safety first.|安全第一が私のモットーです。

方向 / Direction / ほうこう
〜の方向; 
プラスの方向; a positive direction; 
一つの方向; one direction; 
人生の方向; life direction, the course of one's life
〜方向; 
左方向; left direction; 
右方向; right direction; 
同じ方向; same direction
I lost my bearings.|わたしは、方向が分からなくなりました。
I'm super terrible with directions!|めっちゃ方向音ちなんですよ。
Are we going in the right direction? I thought Chuck E. Cheese was the other way.|こっちの方向であってるの？チャッキー・チーズは反対方向だと思ってたんだけど。

安い / Cheap, Inexpensive / やすい
〜が安い;
土地が安い; the land is cheap; 
どちらが安い; Which one is cheaper?; 
コストが安い; the cost is cheap
安い〜; 
安いの; a cheap one;
安いもの; cheap thing; 
安いほう; the cheaper one
Also, the cheap train is better.|そして、でん車は安い方がいいです。
Prices in Thailand are cheaper than America.|タイのぶっかはアメリカよりも安いです。
I bought a very cheap radio yesterday just so I could throw it off the roof of my apartment and watch it shatter.|アパートの屋根から投げて粉々になるのを見てみたかったので、昨日すごく安いラジオを買った。

安心 / Relief, Peace Of Mind / あんしん
安心〜; 
安心安全; safety and security; 
安心サポート; support for peace of mind; 
安心プラン; safety plan, warranty
ご安心〜;
ご安心してください; please don't worry, please set your mind at ease; 
ご安心下さい; please don't worry, please set your mind at ease; 
ご安心を; don't worry
安心を〜;
安心をくれる; gives one peace of mind;
安心をサポートする; to support one's peace of mind;
安心をする; to feel relieved, to feel peace of mind
That’s a relief.|これで安心です。
I never know what that kid will do next, so I can't get peace of mind.|あの子は次の行どうがよそくできないから、安心できないのよね。
I feel so relieved now that I know my dad no longer has cancer.|お父さんの癌が無くなったことを聞いて、とても安心した。

不安 / Uneasiness, Anxiety, Unease / ふあん
不安な〜; 
不安なこと; an uneasy matter;
不安な毎日; uneasy days; 
不安な思い; anxious thoughts
不安を〜; 
不安を生む; to produce anxiety; 
不安を広げる; to spread unease; 
不安をもつ; to have uneasiness
不安に〜; 
不安にする; to make uneasy, to make uncomfortable;
不安に思う; to feel uneasy; 
不安になる; to become uneasy
I’m anxious about passing.|ごうかくしているか不安です。
I'm so nervous about the impending childbirth.|出さんを目前に不安な気もちでいっぱいです。
Since I witnessed the murder, I haven't been able to rid myself of these feelings of anxiety.|あの殺人事件を目撃してからというもの、不安を取り除くことができない。

平安 / Peace, Peaceful, Heian / へいあん
平安な〜; 
平安な生活; a peaceful life; 
平安な日々; peaceful days;
平安な心; peaceful mind
When was the Heian period?|平安じだいはいつですか。
The WaniKani forums don't have any trolls, so it gives me peace of mind.|平安をみだす人がいないワニカニフォーラムは、わたしの心に平安をあたえてくれる。
Walking through the old growth forests in British Columbia was so peaceful.|ブリティッシュコロンビアの古の森を歩く時、心に平安を感じる。

州 / State, Province, County / しゅう
〜州; 
本州; Honshuu; 
メイン州; State of Maine; 
九州; Kyuushuu
I’m from New York state.|ニューヨーク州の出しんです。
There are fifty states in the United States.|アメリカがっしゅう国には、五十の州があります。
The headquarters of Tofugu is located in Portland, Oregon.|オレゴン州ポートランド市には、トーフグの本社がある

九州 / Kyuushuu, Kyushu(9 states) / きゅうしゅう
九州に〜; 
九州にある; to be in Kyuushuu;
九州にいる; to be in Kyuushuu;
九州に行く; to go to Kyuushuu
九州の〜; 
九州の人; people of Kyuushuu; 
九州のフルーツ; fruits of Kyuushuu; 
九州のことば; Kyuushuu dialect
Kyushu cuisine is delicious.|九州のりょうりはおいしいです。
It takes an hour to get to Kyushu by ferry.|九州までは、フェリーでかた道一じかんです。
There are many beautiful women in Kyushu.|九州には、綺麗な女性が多い。

本州 / Honshuu, Honshu(origin state) / ほんしゅう
本州に〜; 
本州にある; to be in Honshuu; 
本州にいる; to be in Honshuu; 
本州に行く; to go to Honshuu
本州の〜; 
本州の人; people of Honshuu;
本州のおみやげ; souvenir from Honshuu;
本州の天気; the weather of Honshuu
After this I plan on going to Honshu.|この後、本州に行くつもりです。
Where the heck in Japan is Honshu?|本州とは、いったいぜんたい日本のどこにあるんですか？
If you don't know where Honshu is, why don't you look it up on your computer?|本州がどこか分からなければ、パソコンでしらべたらどうですか？

曲 / Tune, Piece Of Music, Song, Melody / きょく
曲を〜; 
曲を作る; to compose a song; 
曲をきく; to listen to a song;
曲をうたう; to sing a song
〜の曲; 
次の曲; the next song; 
他の曲; other songs;
自分の曲; one's own songs
What was the name of that song?|その曲の名まえ、何だったっけ。
Are there any songs you would recommend?|何かおすすめの曲はありますか？
He played a tune for us on the piano, but for some reason, the piano sounded like a guitar.|彼がピアノで一曲弾いてくれたんですが、何故かそのピアノはギターの様な音がしたんです。

名曲 / Famous Music, Famous Song, Famous Tune, Masterpiece / めいきょく
〜の名曲; 
ロックの名曲; famous Rock song, Rock classics;
ジャズの名曲; famous Jazz song, Jazz classics; 
クラシックの名曲; a famous work of classical music
名曲を〜; 
名曲をきく; to listen to a musical masterpiece; 
名曲を生み出す; to bring forth a musical masterpiece;
名曲をのこす; to leave a musical masterpiece
Speaking of famous Christmas songs, what do you think?|クリスマスソングの名曲といえば、何だと思いますか。
This is known for being an excellent piece of music, but to me it's just like all the others.|この曲は名曲だと言われているけど、わたしには他の曲と大してかわりない。
Beethoven’s "Smoked Salmon" is a masterpiece.|ベートーベンの「スモークサーモン」は名曲だ。

有る / To Have, To Exist / ある
〜が有る;
お金が有る; to have money; 
車が有る; to have a car; 
ニーズが有る; to have a need, there is a need
We still have a little mayonnaise.|マヨネーズなら、まだ少し有ります。
There is only one train per hour.|一じかんに一本しかでん車は有りません。
There is gold in his house as well as silver on his roof.|彼の家には金も有るが、屋根の上に銀も有る。

有名 / Famous / ゆうめい
有名に〜; 
有名になる; to become famous;
有名にする; to make famous;
有名になれる; able to be famous
有名な〜; 
有名なところ; famous place; 
有名なはなし; famous story; 
有名なもの; famous thing
有名〜;
有名ホテル; famous hotel;
有名どころ; famous place;
有名大学; famous university
There is a famous sushi restaurant near my house.|いえの近くに、有名なすしやがあります。
This article suddenly made Tofugu super popular.|このきじはトーフグを一やくちょう有名にした。
I’m famous, are you?|俺は有名だけど、お前はどうよ？

次 / Next / つぎ
次へ〜; 
次へすすむ; to move on to the next step; 
次へつながる; to be linked to the next, to lead to the next; 
次へクリックする; to click to the next
次は〜; 
次は見る; to see next time; 
次は行く; to go next time; 
次はする; to do something next time
次の〜; 
次のステップ; the next step;
次のとおり; as follows; 
次のページ; the next page
Let’s catch the next train.|次のでん車にのりましょう。
I'll let you know once we decide on the next plan.|次のよていは、決まり次だいお知らせします。
The next destination on this bus tour is Michael Jackson’s house.|このバスツアーの次の目的地は、マイケル・ジャクソンの家です。

次回 / Next Time / じかい
次回は〜;
次回は行く; to go next time; 
次回はする; to do next time; 
次回は見る; to watch next time
次回の〜; 
次回のテーマ; the theme for next time;
次回のレッスン; next lesson;
次回のイベント; next event
I’m looking forward to the next production.|次回の作ひんも、たのしみにしています。
There is no next time. We only live once.|次回なんてないんだよ。人生は一どきりなんだから。
Don’t worry, bro. We’ll get them next time, yo.|兄貴、心配するなよ。次回は絶対あいつらを仕留めてやろうぜ。

目次 / Table Of Contents / もくじ
目次を〜;
目次を作る; to create a table of contents;
目次をよむ; to read the table of contents; 
目次を見る; to look at the table of contents
〜の目次; 
テキストの目次; table of contents for the textbook;
本の目次; table of contents for the book; 
マニュアルの目次; table of contents for the manual
The table of contents page was torn out.|目次のページがやぶれています。
First, I would like to explain the table of contents.|先ずはじめに、目次をごせつ明いたします。
Do I have to read this whole book? Can’t I just read the table of contents?|この本全部読まないとだめ？目次だけ読むってことは無理かな？

年次 / Annual, Yearly / ねんじ
年次〜;
年次データ; annual data;
年次コンファレンス; annual conference;
年次レポート; annual report
Let’s decide on this year’s annual project.|今年の年次けいかくを立てましょう。
How much annual paid leave do you get, Mariko?|マリ子は年次有きゅう休か、何日もらえるの？
We write an annual report on how much our Japanese language students are improving.生徒たちの日本語がどれだけ上達したかに関する年次報告書を作成する。

死ぬ / To Die / しぬ
〜が死ぬ;
父が死ぬ; Father dies; 
自分が死ぬ; I will die, one's own death;
人が死ぬ; a person dies
〜死ぬ; 
なぜ死ぬ; Why die?; 
いずれ死ぬ; to die sooner or later; 
やがて死ぬ; to die before long, to eventually die
〜は死ぬ; 
人は死ぬ; people will die; 
自分は死ぬ; I will die; 
オレは死ぬ; I will die
I thought I would die.|死ぬかと思いました。
My grandmother died from cancer.|わたしのそ母は、がんで死にました。
I promise you that I will never die.|私は絶対に死なないと約束するよ。

死体 / Dead Body, Corpse, Cadaver / したい
死体を〜; 
死体をかくす; to hide a dead body; 
死体を見る; to view the body; 
死体を見つける; to find a dead body
死体が〜; 
死体が上がる; to have a corpse rise in a body of water;
死体が見つかる; to find a dead body; 
死体がある; there is a dead body
Who found the dead body?|だれが死体を見つけましたか。
Who did you say was arrested for abandoning a corpse?|だれが死体いきのようぎでたいほされたって？
The first time I saw a dead body was when I was six years old.|私が初めて死体を見たのは、六歳の時です。

死亡 / Mortality, Death / しぼう
〜の死亡; 
父の死亡; Father's death;
母の死亡; Mother's death; 
人の死亡; person's death
死亡〜;
死亡リスク; risk of death;
死亡フラグ; death flag (literary device), famous last words; 
死亡データ; mortality data
I heard that when you eat a lot of vegetables you can lower your risk of mortality.|やさいをたくさん食べると、死亡リスクがへるそうです。
What is the cause of Mr. Yamada's younger brother's death?|山田さんの弟さんの死亡のげんいんはなんですか？
Since the invention of the cheeseburger, mortality rates in all first-world nations have tripled.|チーズバーガーの発明により、全先進国の死亡率が三倍に跳ね上がった。

羊 / Sheep / ひつじ
羊を〜; 
羊をかぞえる; to count sheep;
羊をかう; to buy a sheep, to raise a sheep; 
羊をさがす; to search for a sheep
羊の〜; 
羊の毛; wool; 
羊の肉; mutton, sheep's meat;
羊のむれ; flock of sheep
I got to feed the sheep at the zoo.|どうぶつえんで、羊にえさをやりました。
Anything can happen at any moment, so if you want a sheep, get it.|いつ何がおこるか分からないんだから、羊がかいたいなら、かいたいと思ったときにかった方がいいよ。
Do you think sheep feel embarrassed when they have their wool sheared off?|毛を刈られた時、羊も恥ずかしい思いをしていると思う？

羊毛 / Wool / ようもう
羊毛の〜; 
羊毛のセーター; wool sweater;
羊毛のじゅうたん; wool rug;
羊毛の色;the color of the wool
羊毛を〜; 
羊毛を用いる; to utilize wool; 
羊毛をまぜる; to mix wool; 
羊毛をつかう; to use wool
I got a wool blanket as a Christmas present.|クリスマスプレゼントに、羊毛のブランケットをもらいました。
I'm so happy to have come across this wool felt doll.|この羊毛フェルトの人形に出会えて本当によかった。
Woolen mittens are great for stuffing pillows.|羊毛の手袋は、枕の詰め物に適している。

血 / Blood / ち
血が〜;
血がまじる; to be muddied with blood, to be bloodstained;
血が出る; to bleed; 血がながれる; to bleed, to have blood flowing
血〜;
血だらけ; covered in blood, bloody; 
血しぶき; spray of blood; 
血まみれ; to be covered in blood
血を〜; 
血をはく; to cough up blood, to spit out blood; 
血をながす; to shed blood, to spill blood; 
血を見る; to see blood
There is blood on your shirt.|シャツに血がついていますよ。
Why does my bum bleed when I poop?|うんちをするときにおしりから血が出るのはなぜなんだ！
I like steak when it still has lots of blood in it.|血が滴るぐらいのステーキが好きです。

出血 / Bleeding, Bleed / しゅっけつ
出血が〜; 
出血が止まる; to stop bleeding; 
出血がつづく; the bleeding continues; 
出血がある; there is bleeding
出血を〜; 
出血を止める; to stop the bleeding;
出血をおこす; to cause bleeding;
出血をする; to bleed
The bleeding won’t stop.|なかなか出血が止まりません。
Tofugu is providing you with a huge discount!|トーフグはぜっさん出血大サービス中です。
I think my nose would stop bleeding if I kept my finger out of it.|指を抜いていれば、鼻からの出血は止まると思います。

国 / Country, Nation / くに
国が〜;
国がある; there is a country; 
国がする; done by the government;
国が行う; carried out by the government
国の〜;
国の文化; national culture; 
国の人; people of the country;
国のあり方; current state of the nation, how the nation ought to be
〜の国; 
他の国; another country; 
それぞれの国; each country; 
自分の国; one's own country
Which country are you from?|お国はどちらですか。
I thought this country was safe, but now I'm disappointed.|この国は安全だと思っていたのに、がっかりです。
In my country, there is a shop that sells apple pies made by a cat.|私の国には、猫が焼くアップルパイのお店がある。

中国 / China / ちゅうごく
中国に〜; 
中国にいる; to be in China;
中国にある; to be in China; 
中国に行く; to go to China
中国の〜; 
中国の山; the mountains of China;
中国の人; person from China; 
中国のとなり; next to China
中国〜; 
中国っぽい; China-like; 
中国らしい; very Chinese, typical of China; 
中国人; Chinese person
Next month I’m traveling to China on business.|来月は、出ちょうで中国に行きます。
During winter break, I watched the meteor shower in China.|冬休みに、中国でりゅう星ぐんを見ました。
Why did Japanese people stop calling China "Shina" and start calling it "Chuugoku?"|どうして日本人は中国を支那と呼ぶことをやめて中国と呼び始めたんだろう。

天国 / Kingdom Of Heaven, Heaven, Paradise / てんごく
天国の〜;
天国の入り口; the entrance to heaven;
天国のおじいちゃん; grandpa in heaven;
天国のおばあちゃん; grandma in heaven
天国に〜;
天国に行ける; to be able to go to heaven; 
天国に行く; to go to heaven; 
天国にいる; to be in heaven
Poochie is definitely in heaven.|ポチはきっと天国にいるんだよ。
I am so disappointed to learn the Kingdom of Heaven is that kind of place.|天国がこんなとこだったなんて、本当にがっかりです。
Let’s smoke cigarettes in Heaven.|タバコを天国で吸いましょう。

全国 / Nationwide, National, Countrywide / ぜんこく
全国に〜; 
全国にある; to be nationwide; 
全国にいる; to be nationwide;
全国に広がる; to spread throughout the nation
全国の〜; 
全国のコンビニ; convenience stores nationwide;
全国のみなさん; everyone in the country;
全国の大学; universities nationwide
全国〜; 
全国レベル; national level; 
全国ツアー; nationwide tour; 
全国大会; a national convention, a national sports competition
The flu is spreading nationwide.|全国でインフルエンザがはやっています。
Which prefecture is the largest producer of apples nationwide?|リンゴのしゅうかくりょうが全国で一ばん多いけんはどこですか？
He was involved in a nationwide cyber bullying scandal.|彼は全国規模のサイバーいじめのスキャンダルに関与していた。

四国 / Shikoku (4 Countries) / しこく
四国に〜; 
四国にいる; to be in Shikoku; 
四国に行く; to go to Shikoku;
四国にある; to be in Shikoku
四国の〜; 
四国の海; ocean by Shikoku;
四国の人々; people of Shikoku;
四国のうどん; the udon in Shikoku
I still haven’t been to Shikoku.|四国にはまだ行ったことがありません。
Have you gotten used to life in Shikoku yet?|四国での生活にはなれましたか？
I was traveling through Shikoku to learn how to make the best udon noodles.|最高の饂飩の作り方を求めて、四国を旅していた。

外国 / Foreign Country, Other Countries, Overseas / がいこく
外国の〜;
外国の人; foreign person; 
外国の大学; foreign university; 
外国の文化; foreign culture
外国〜; 
外国メディア; foreign media;
外国人; foreign person; 
外国ぐらし; living in a foreign country
外国に〜;
外国に行く; to go to a foreign country; 
外国にある; to be in a foreign country;
外国にいる; to be in a foreign country
We haven’t gone to other countries yet.|わたしたちはまだ外国に行ったことがありません。
This is my first time making an overseas call.|外国へでんわをするのはこれがはじめてです。
I wouldn’t mind being a celebrity if I was in a foreign country.|もし外国にいるなら、有名人になっても構わない。

外国人 / Foreign Person, Foreigner / がいこくじん
外国人に〜; 
外国人に学ぶ; to learn from a foreign person; 
外国人になる; to become a foreign person; 
外国人にきく; to ask a foreign person
外国人の〜; 
外国人の友人; foreign friend, friend of a foreign person; 
外国人の文化; foreign person's culture;
外国人のくらし; life of a foreign person
Today, I went shopping with my foreign friends.今日、外国人の友だちと、かいものに行きました。
That foreigner's eyes were bloodshot.|その外国人の目は血走っていた。
No, I’m not racist. I’ve met every kind of foreign person on the planet and I just hate each of them equally.|いいえ、私は人種差別主義者ではありません。世界中の全ての外国人に会って、それぞれ個人的に嫌いになっただけです。

米国 / United States Of America, United States, America, USA / べいこく
米国に〜; 
米国にある; to be in America; 
米国にいる; to be in America; 
米国に行く; to go to America
米国の〜;
米国のピザ; American pizza; 
米国の人々; American people;
米国の大学; American university
Do you know the name of the president of the United States?|米国の大とうりょうの名まえを知っていますか。
I never expected anything from the US anyways.|米国には元々何もきたいなんてしてなかったよ。
Many people immigrate to the United States solely for the super-size combos at McDonald’s.|多くの人は、単にマクドナルドのスーパーサイズコンボのために米国に移住する

夜 / Night, Evening / よる
夜の〜; 
夜の町; the town at night;
夜の月; moon of the night; 
夜のしごと; night work
夜に〜;
夜になる; to become nighttime; 
夜に行う; to carry out at night; 
夜にする; to do at night
〜の夜; 
冬の夜; winter night; 
今日の夜; tonight; 
平日の夜; weeknight
I went to a party last night.|きのうの夜、パーティーに行きました。
Last night, I was so excited that I barely slept.|きのうの夜は、こうふんしてほとんどねむれませんでした。
Night is the time when monsters crawl up through the floor to have tea parties under my bed.|夜には、モンスターたちが床から這い上がり、私のベッドの下でお茶会を開くんだよ。

今夜 / Tonight, This Evening / こんや
今夜は〜; 
今夜はねる; to sleep tonight, going to sleep tonight; 
今夜は考える; to think about something tonight; 
今夜はいる; to be somewhere tonight, to be in tonight
今夜の〜; 
今夜のおかず; tonight's dish to go with rice; 
今夜の月; tonight's moon; 
今夜のメニュー; tonight's menu
Would you like to go out for drinks with me tonight?|今夜、いっしょにのみに行きませんか。
The exam is coming up tomorrow, so I am gonna burn the midnight oil tonight.|明日しけんがあるから、今夜はてつ夜でがんばります。
I feel like eating chicken wings for dinner tonight.|今夜は晩ご飯に手羽先が食べたい気分だ。

姉妹 / Sisters / しまい
姉妹が〜; 
姉妹が亡くなる; sisters pass away;
姉妹が死亡する; a sister dies; 
姉妹がいる; to have sisters
姉妹の〜;
姉妹の父; father of sisters; 
姉妹の姉; elder sister;
姉妹の子; sisters' children
姉妹〜; 
姉妹サイト; sister site; 
姉妹グループ; sister group; 
姉妹大学; sister university
〜姉妹; 
兄弟姉妹; brothers and sisters; 
なかよし姉妹; sisters that get along;
二人姉妹; two sisters
Those two sisters look so alike.|二人の姉妹はとてもよくにています。
Hey, you two kinda look like sisters.|何か、二人って姉妹みたいだよね。
There is a bond between sisters that isn’t shared between girls who are just friends.|単なる女友達には無い絆が、姉妹の間にはある。

妹 / Younger Sister, Little Sister / いもうと
妹が〜; 
妹が来る; younger sister is coming; 
妹が生まれる; younger sister is born; 
妹がいる; to have a younger sister
妹の〜; 
妹のはなし; younger sister's talk, story about a younger sister;
妹の子; younger sister's child; 
妹の死; younger sister's death
妹〜; 
妹たち; younger sisters; 
妹ちゃん; Younger Sister; 
妹さん; Younger Sister
Who is Tanaka’s younger sister?|田中さんの妹はどの人ですか。
I feel betrayed by my little sister.|妹にうら切られた気分です。
My younger sister just cut off all of her hair so she could make wigs for her Barbie dolls.|私の妹は、バービー人形にウィッグを作ってあげたいからと、自分の髪の毛を切った。

お姉さん / Older Sister, Miss / おねえさん
お姉さんが〜; 
お姉さんがいる; Older Sister is here;
お姉さんがくれる; Older Sister gives me something; 
お姉さんがする; Older Sister does something
お姉さんの〜; 
お姉さんのネックレス; Older Sister's necklace; 
お姉さんの声; Older Sister's voice; 
お姉さんのかお; Older Sister's face
Midori’s older sister is wearing glasses.|みどりちゃんのお姉さんはめがねをかけています。
I totally thought you were Viet's older sister, but you aren't, eh?|あなたのこと、てっきりビエトくんのお姉さんだと思ってたんですが、ちがったんですね。
My older sister thinks that buying a motorcycle will help her get a boyfriend.|私のお姉さんは、バイクを買うことが彼氏を見つけることに繋がると考えています。

店 / Shop, Store / みせ
店で〜; 
店でたべる; to eat at the shop;
店ではたらく; to work at the shop;
店でつかう; to use at the shop
〜の店;
他の店; another shop; 
自分の店; one's own shop; 
行きつけの店; one's favorite restaurant
店を〜; 
店をする; to run a store; 
店を出る; to leave the shop; 
店を出す; to open a shop
店に〜;
店にいる; to be in the shop;
店に行く; to go to the shop; 
店に入る; to go in the shop
店が〜; 
店がならぶ; to have a row of shops;
店がある; there is a shop; 
店ができる; a shop is established
店の〜; 
店の人; shopkeeper, shop employee; 
店の入り口; shop entrance; 
店の外; outside the shop
お店; 
お店; shop
Please draw a map from the station to the store.|えきからその店までの地図をかいてください。
The restaurant is already fully booked for the rest of the year.|この店は年内はすでにずっとよやくでいっぱいだ。
You’re going to love this shop. They have the best meatloaf in the world.|この店のこと絶対気に入るぜ。世界一うまいミートローフがあるんだよ。

明るい / Bright, Cheerful / あかるい
〜が明るい;
外が明るい; it is bright outside; 
色が明るい; the color is bright;
空が明るい; the sky is bright
明るい〜; 
明るい光; bright light;
明るいところ; a bright place; 
明るい色; a bright color
〜明るい; 
とても明るい; very bright; 
いつも明るい; always bright;
少し明るい; a little bright
This room is bright.|このへやは明るい。
Everyone at Tofugu is cheerful.|トーフグのみんなは明るい。
Your future is still bright, Grandpa.|未来はまだまだ明るいよ、おじいちゃん。

不明 / Unknown, Unclear, Uncertain, Unsure / ふめい
〜不明; 
ソース不明; unknown source;
正体不明; unknown, unidentifiable;
生死不明; unknown if alive or dead
ご不明〜;
ご不明な方; those who are unsure;
ご不明なとき; when unsure;
ご不明な点; questions, unclear points
不明な〜; 
不明なこと; something unclear; 
不明な点; unknown point, unknown aspect; 
不明なまま; remains unknown
The author of this story is unknown.|このはなしの作しゃは不明です。
This milk doesn't have an expiration date on it.|この牛にゅうのしょうみきげんは不明です。
Huh? When you were sleeping you used an onion for a pillow? I don’t really get what you’re saying.|え？寝る時、玉ねぎを枕にしたの？あんたの言ってること、意味不明なんだけど。

東方 / Eastward, Eastern Direction, The East / とうほう
東方の〜;
東方の国; eastern country, country located to the east;
東方の人; people of the East; 
東方の地; land of the East
Apparently this man is from a country in the East.|この男は、東方の国から来たらしい。
The treasure is said to be somewhere in the lands to the east.|その宝は、東方の地のどこかにあるそうだ。
Have you read "The Travels of Marco Polo" by Marco Polo?|マルコ・ポーロの『東方見聞録』はもう読みましたか？

東北 / Tohoku , Tohoku Region, Northeast Region / とうほく
I was volunteering in Tohoku.|東北で、ボランティアをしていました。
I'm living by myself in Tohoku now.|東北で一人ぐらしをしています。
A magnitude 8.9 earthquake slammed into Japan’s northeastern coast.|マグニチュード8.9の地震が、日本の東北地方の海岸を襲った。

中東 / Middle East / ちゅうとう
中東に〜;
中東にある; to be in the Middle East;
中東に多い; there are many in the Middle East;
中東に行く; to go to the Middle East
中東の〜; 
中東の国; Middle Eastern countries; 
中東の人々; people of the Middle East; 
中東の人気スポット; popular spot in the Middle East
I watched the news on the Middle East on TV this morning.|けさ、テレビで中東のニュースを見ました。
You can't help it that you couldn't make it to the wedding because you had to go to the Middle East for an emergency.|きんきゅうじたいで中東に行かなくてはいけなかったんだから、けっこんしきに来れなかったのは仕方がないよ。
What is the most played game in the Middle East?|中東で一番楽しまれているゲームは何ですか？

南東 / Southeast / なんとう
南東の〜; 
南東の角; the southeast corner; 
南東の方向; southeast direction; 
南東の空; southeast sky
南東に〜; 
南東にある; to be located to the southeast;
南東に向かう; to head southeast, to face southeast; 
南東にすすむ; to advance to the southeast
The car continued heading southeast.|車は、南東に向かってすすみました。
I totally thought the sun would set in the southeast today.|てっきり今日は日が南東にしずむもんだとおもっていたよ。
I saw a shooting star in the southeast.|南東の方角に、流れ星を見た。

歩く / To Walk / あるく
〜に歩く; 
同じ方向に歩く; to walk in the same direction;
いつものように歩く; to walk as usual;
いっしょに歩く; to walk together
〜を歩く; 
林の中を歩く; to walk in the forest; 
アスファルトの上を歩く; to walk on the asphalt;
町を歩く; to walk around town
〜で歩く; 
はだしで歩く; to walk barefoot;
二人で歩く; to walk together; 
自分の足で歩く; to walk with one's own feet
I’m planning to walk to school.|学こうまで歩くつもりです。
It's the first time we've walked holding hands in a long time.|あなたと手をつないで歩くなんて、何年ぶりかしら。
I’m so fat that when I walk down the street and step on a penny, I squeeze a booger out of the Queen’s nose.|私はとても太いので、私が道を歩いている時にペニーを踏んだら、女王様の鼻から鼻くそが飛び出ます。

直す / To Fix, To Repair, To Fix Something, To Repair Something / なおす
〜に直す;
きれいに直す; to fix nicely;
ひらがなに直す; to change to hiragana;
早めに直す; to fix earlier than later
〜を直す; 
クセを直す; to fix a habit, to fix a quirk;
どこを直す; Where to fix?;
それを直す; to fix that
My PC broke. Can you fix it?|パソコンがこわれたんですが、直せますか。
You'd better think it through again.|考え直した方がいいですよ。
You don’t need to fix something if it’s not broken.もし壊れていなければ、それを直そうとする必要はないよ。

正直 / Honest, Honestly / しょうじき
正直な〜; 
正直なところ; in all honesty; 
正直な思い; honest thoughts, honest feelings; 
正直な人; honest person
正直に〜; 
正直に生きる; to live honestly;
正直にはなす; to speak honestly;
正直に言う; to speak honestly
正直〜; 
正直びっくりする; to be honestly surprised; 
正直がっかりする; to be honestly disappointed; 
正直おどろく; to be honestly astonished
Kawata is a very honest person.|川田さんは、とても正直な人です。
I like his honesty.|かれの正直なところがすきなんです。
I try to be honest all the time because I’m an underwater-breathing Martian prince and I need to set an example for people.
  僕は水中で息をしている火星からきた王子だし、他の人の模範となる必要があるので、いつも正直でいようと心がけています。

直行 / Nonstop, Direct / ちょっこう 
直行の〜; 
直行のリムジンバス; direct airport shuttle bus;
直行のチャーターフライト; direct charter flight; 
直行のバス; nonstop bus
直行〜;
直行シャトル; direct shuttle; 
直行する; to go directly; 
直行バス; direct bus
〜直行; 
トイレ直行; straight to the toilet; 
シャワー直行; straight to the shower; 
ホテル直行; straight to the hotel
This airplane is nonstop to Tokyo.|このひ行きは、東京に直行します。
Today after the meeting with Japan, I'll go directly to the appointment with Tofugu.|今日は、日本との会ぎの後、トーフグとのアポに直行します。
I’m sorry, I can't talk right now. I’m on a nonstop trip to the bathroom.|ごめんなさい、今は話せません。トイレへ直行しているところなのです。

長い / Long / ながい
〜が長い; 
はなしが長い; story is long, talk is long; 
毛が長い; hair is long; 
ツメが長い; nails are long
長い〜;
長いあいだ; a long interval of time;
長い人生; long life;
長い年月; many years
〜は長い; 
先は長い; long road ahead; 
十年は長い; ten years is long;
人生は長い; life is long
〜長い; 
かなり長い; considerably long;
少し長い; little long; 
とても長い; very long
This movie was long.|このえいがは長かったです。
That lady with long hair standing by the door is the one in charge.|あそこのドアの近くに立ってるかみの長い女性が、たん当しゃの方です。
I'm thinking about breaking my own legs to avoid going long distance running.|長い距離のランニングを避けるため、自分の足の骨を折ってしまおうと思っている。

社長 / Company President, Manager, Director, President Of A Company / しゃちょう
社長に〜;
社長になる; to become company president; 
社長にする; to make president; 
社長にきく; to ask the president
社長の〜; 
社長のはなし; president's talk, president's story; 
社長のことば; the words of the president; 
社長の思い; thoughts of the president
〜社長;
オーナー社長; president and owner; 
ワンマン社長; an autocratic president;
コウイチ社長; President Koichi
社長が〜; 
社長がする; the president does; 
社長が言う; the president says; 
社長がいる; there is a president
社長〜; 
社長さま; president;
社長たち; presidents; 
社長さん; president
〜の社長; 
会社の社長; president of a company;
トーフグの社長; president of Tofugu; 
うちの社長; our president, my president
The company president is in a meeting.|社長は会ぎ中です。
The president of Tofugu is insane to lower the price of that popular service.|あの人気サービスのねだんを下げるなんて、トーフグの社長はどうかしてるよ。
All my coworkers hate my boss, but I just think he’s a little mean.|全社員は社長のことを嫌っているが、私は単に彼は少し意地悪なだけだと思っている。

前 / Front, Before / まえ
前に〜; 
前にある; to be in front; 
前にいる; to be in front; 
前に出る; to go out front, to step forward
前から〜;
前からできる; to have been able to do something from before;
前から来る; to come from the front; 
前から知っている; to know from before
前の〜; 
前の人; the person in front; 
前のはなし; the story before; 
前の車; the car in front
〜前; 
半年前; half a year ago;
一つ前; one before, one previous; 
ねる前; before going to sleep
〜の前; 
みんなの前; in front of everyone; 
店の前; in front of the shop; 
目の前; before one's eyes
In front is a flower shop and next door to it is a fish shop.|前は花やで、花やのとなりはさかなやです。
Every morning I do 500 squats before leaving for work.|毎あさ、会社に行く前に、スクワットを五百回します。
When I’m in front of a red light, I get very excited at the thought of it turning green soon.|赤信号の前にいる時、「もうすぐ青に変わるぞ！」と思うとかなり興奮する。

午前 / AM, Morning, A.M. / ごぜん
午前〜; 
午前午後; morning and afternoon; 
午前7:00; 7 a.m.; 
午前中; during the morning
〜の午前;
平日の午前; weekday morning; 
今日の午前; this morning; 
休日の午前; morning of the holiday
This department store opens at 10:00 am.|このデパートは、午前十じにひらきます。
My son still needs to take a nap in the morning.|わたしのむす子は、まだ午前中にあさねをするひつようがあります。
I’ll be posting telepathically at 9AM today, so if you think of something funny, that was me.|今日は午前9時にテレパシーで投稿する予定にしているので、もし君がその時何か面白いことを考えたら、それは私の仕業だから。

南 / South / みなみ
南に〜; 
南にある; to be located to the south;
南に行く; to go to the south; 
南にすすむ; to advance south
南の〜; 
南の国; southern country; 
南の海; southern sea; 
南の空; southern sky
There is a police station on the south side of the library.|としょかんの南に、交ばんがあります。
Why isn't there a North Japan Railway Company and a South Japan Railway Company, even though there's an East Japan Railway Company and a West Japan Railway Company?
  どうして東日本りょかくてつ道と西日本りょかくてつ道はあるのに、北日本りょかくてつ道と南日本りょかくてつ道はないんだ？|I saw Brad Pitt at the south baseball stadium.|南球場でブラッド・ピットを見た。

後ろ / Behind, Back, Rear / うしろ
後ろに〜; 
後ろにいる; to be behind;
後ろに下がる; to step backwards; 
後ろにある; to be behind
後ろを〜; 
後ろを見る; to look behind, to look back;
後ろを向く; to face the back;
後ろを歩く; to walk behind
後ろの〜; 
後ろの人; the person in the back;
後ろの二人; the two people in the back; 
後ろの車; the car behind
〜の後ろ; 
車の後ろ; behind the car;
耳の後ろ; behind the ear; 
首の後ろ; behind the neck
後ろから〜; 
後ろからおす; to push from behind;
後ろから来る; to come from behind; 
後ろから見る; to look from behind
後ろで〜; 
後ろでする; to do in the back;
後ろでむすぶ; to tie behind; 
後ろで見る; to watch in the back
Please close the door behind you.|あなたの後ろのドアをしめてください。
You must install the child carseat on the rear seat of the car.|チャイルドシートは、かならず後ろのざせきにせっちしてください。
If you turn around to look behind you and then do it again, you’ll see me.|振り返って後ろを見た後、さらにもう一度振り返ったら、僕のことが見えるよ。

後で / After, Afterwards, Later / あとで
後で〜; 
後で見る; to watch later;
後で言う; to say later;
後でする; to do later
Why don’t we have some tea together later?|後でいっしょにお茶でもしませんか。
Don't make me say, "I told you so," later.|後で、「言わんこっちゃない」って言わせないでよ。
After the movie, we headed across town to watch it again in another theater.|その映画を見終わった後で、もう一度それを見るために違う映画館へ向かった。

午後 / PM, Afternoon / ごご
午後に〜; 
午後に行く; to go in the afternoon; 
午後になる; to become afternoon; 
午後にする; to do something in the afternoon
午後の〜; 
午後のスケジュール; afternoon schedule;
午後の2:00; 2:00 p.m.;
午後のおやつ; afternoon snack
〜の午後;
冬の午後; winter's afternoon; 
今日の午後; this afternoon; 
平日の午後; weekday afternoon
午後〜;
午後ティー; afternoon tea; 
午後クラス; afternoon class;
午後3:00; 3:00 p.m.
What are the women going to do tomorrow afternoon?|女の人は、あしたの午後、何をしますか。
What's the closest time in the afternoon that's available for an appointment?|直近の午後で空いているじかんは何じですか？
I have an appointment with my doctor at 3PM to remove an ingrown toenail.|午後三時に、足の巻き爪を取り除くためのお医者さんの予約がある。

思う / To Think / おもう
〜に思う; 
不安に思う; to feel uneasy; 
大切に思う; to value, to cherish; 
ふしぎに思う; to think something strange, to find something mysterious
〜思う; 
そう思う; to think so; 
いつも思う; to always think; 
どう思う; What do you think?
〜と思う; 
お金のためだと思う; to think something is for the sake of money; 
いいことだと思う; to think something is a good thing;
古いものだと思う; to think it is an old thing
I think he’s coming too.|かれも来ると思いますよ。
Do you think I should avoid going to Mexico during hurricane season?|ハリケーンのきせつはメキシコに行くのをさけた方がいいと思いますか。
The simple act of thinking is not illegal, yet.|思うだけならまだ違法じゃないよ。

生活 / Life, Livelihood / せいかつ
生活〜;
生活スタイル; lifestyle; 
生活リズム; the rhythm of one’s daily life;
生活レベル; standard of living
生活を〜; 
生活をする; to live, to make a living;
生活をつづける; to continue living;
生活をおくる; to lead some kind of life
生活の〜;
生活のリズム; the rhythm of one's daily life;
生活のあり方; way of life;
生活のルール; rules of life
〜の生活; 
人々の生活; people's daily lives;
日々の生活; everyday life; 
ふだんの生活; usual lifestyle
〜生活; 
大学生活; university life; 
テント生活; tent life; 
サラリーマン生活; salaryman life
Please tell me the difference between American and Japanese life?|アメリカと日本の生活のちがいをおしえてください。
I want to get back together and live with you again.|あなたとの生活をもう一どやり直したいんです。
I would be very happy if I could watch cartoons and eat marshmallows every day of my life.|毎日の生活でアニメを見ながらマシュマロを食べることができたら、とても幸せです。

海外 / Overseas, Foreign, Abroad / かいがい
海外で〜;
海外でできる; to be able to do overseas, to be established overseas;
海外ではたらく; to work overseas; 
海外で生活する; to live overseas
海外に〜; 
海外に行く; to go overseas; 
海外にいる; to be overseas;
海外に出る; to go overseas
海外の〜; 
海外の会社; overseas company;
海外の大学; overseas university;
海外の人; foreigner
海外〜; 
海外生活; overseas life; 
海外メディア; overseas media; 
海外ドラマ; overseas TV drama
I want to work overseas in the future.|しょう来は、海外ではたらきたいです。
After having worked in the insurance industry for eight years, I went to America to study abroad.|ほけんぎょうかいに八年つとめた後、アメリカへ海外りゅう学しました。
I want to live somewhere overseas, but I hate traveling.|私はどこか海外で住みたいと思っているが、旅行は嫌いだ。








































