見える / To Be Visible, To Be In Sight, Can See, To Seem / みえる
〜に見える; 
先に見える; can see something ahead; 
目に見える; to be visible; 
きれいに見える; to be clearly visible, to look clean
〜見える; 
よく見える; can see well; 
小さく見える; to look smaller; 
大きく見える; to look bigger
〜が見える; 
山が見える; can see mountains; 
光が見える; can see light; 
目が見える; to be able to see
The volcano is visible from here.|ここから火山が見える
|Can you see the red flag over there?|あそこの赤いはたが見えますか。
I'm really curious about how I seem to others.|自分が人からどう見えるのかがすごく気になる。

その他 / The Others, Other, Other Than That / そのほか, そのた
その他の〜; 
その他のバス; other buses;
その他のゲーム; other games;
その他の人; other people
There are many others.|その他色々あります。
Other than that, is there anything you'd like to say?|その他、何か言いたいことはありますか？
What should I do with the other garbage?|その他のゴミはどうすればいいですか。

止まる / To Stop / とまる
〜が止まる;
手が止まる; to pause in doing something; 
車が止まる; the car stops; 
なみだが止まる; the tears stop
〜に止まる; 
そこに止まる; to stop there; 
十パーセントに止まる; to stop at ten percent; 
目に止まる; to catch one's attention
〜は止まる; 
バスは止まる; the bus stops; 
エレベーターは止まる; the elevator stops; 
車は止まる; the car stops
The car stopped at the red signal.|あかしんごうで、くるまは止まりました。
|I was so surprised I thought my heart leapt into my mouth.|心ぞうが止まるかとおもった。
I couldn’t stop on the ice.|こおりの上で、止まることができなかった。

外れる / To Be Disconnected, To Come Off, To Be Off / はずれる
〜から外れる; 
メンバーから外れる; to be removed as a member, to be left off the team; 
ルートから外れる; to go off the route; 
コースから外れる; to go off course
〜が外れる; 
チェーンが外れる; the chain comes off;
戸が外れる; the door comes off; 
あごが外れる; the jaw dislocates
〜に外れる; 
クジに外れる; to miss out in a lottery;
上に外れる; to go too high and miss (a target); 
左に外れる; to come off to the left
The sliding door came off.|あみ戸が外れてしまいました。
I got injured, so I'm going to be taken off the starting players.|けがをして、スタメンから外れることになっちゃったんだ。
Since the plug was disconnected, Mr. Robot was no longer able to say, "thank you," anymore.|プラグが外れたので、Mr.ロボットはありがとうといえなくなった。

出す / To Take Out, To Hand Out, To Remove, To Turn In, To Put Out / だす
〜出す; 
まず出す; to put out first, to submit first; 
少し出す; to put out a little, to pay a little;
すぐ出す; to put out immediately, to submit right away
〜が出す; 
会社が出す; the company pays;
自分が出す; I put something out myself, I pay;
田中さんが出す; Mr. Tanaka puts something out, Mr. Tanaka pays
〜を出す; 
声を出す; to speak; 
手を出す; to put a hand out, to hit someone, to involve oneself;
お金を出す; to pay money
〜に出す; 
外に出す; to put something outside; 
口に出す; to speak out; 
声に出す; to put something into words
Please put the dictionary out on the desk.|つくえの上に、じしょを出してください。
That American removed all the venom he got from two rattle snakes out of his leg.|そのアメリカ人は、あしから二ひきのガラガラヘビにかまれたどくをぜんぶ出した。
The thief handed out all the goods he stole.|どろぼうはぬすんだものをすべて出してくばった。

立てる / To Stand Something Up, To Make Something, To Set Something Up / たてる
〜立てる; 
少し立てる; to set something up a little; 
きちんと立てる; to set up something properly; 
しっかり立てる; to set up something firmly
〜を立てる; 
プランを立てる; to make a plan;
音を立てる; to make a sound;
スケジュールを立てる; to make a schedule
How many candles will you put out?|ロウソクは、なん本立てますか？
I’m looking for an easel to stand this photo frame up on.|このしゃしん立てを立てるためのスタンドをさがしています。
Could you please stand some pencils up on my desk?|ぼくのつくえにえんぴつを立ててくれませんか？

生む / To Give Birth, To Produce / うむ
〜で生む; 
山で生む; to give birth in the mountains; 
自分で生む; to give birth by oneself;
一人で生む; to give birth alone
〜が生む;
メスが生む; the females give birth; 
社会が生む; society produces;
自分が生む; I will give birth
〜を生む; 
子犬を生む; to give birth to a puppy;
赤ちゃんを生む; to give birth to a baby;
子を生む; to give birth to a child
His remark produced problems.|かれのはつげんは、ぎもんを生んだ。
Please do not post things that could give rise to misunderstandings.|ごかいを生むようなとうこうはしないでください。
Even though it wasn’t my husband’s, I had no choice but to give birth to the baby.|おっとの子ではなかったが、生むしかなかった。

入れる / To Insert, To Put In / いれる
〜に入れる; 
手に入れる; to obtain something; 
口に入れる; to put in one's mouth; 
中に入れる; to put inside
〜を入れる;
水を入れる; to pour water into;
チェックを入れる; to check; 
力を入れる; to put pressure on
What will you put in the square?|しかくになにを入れますか。
Please insert twelve pieces of origami paper here.|ここにおりがみを十二まい入れてください。
I put a hamburger into the coffin.|わたしはハンバーガーをひつぎに入れた。

上がる / To Go Up, To Rise, To Be Raised, To Stop / あがる
〜に上がる; 
一気に上がる; to go up all at once; 
ステージに上がる; to go up on stage; 
リングに上がる; to step into the ring; 
上に上がる; to go up
〜で上がる; 
エスカレーターで上がる; to go up by the escalator;
かいだんで上がる; to go up by the stairs;
エレベーターで上がる; to go up by the elevator
〜が上がる;
テンションが上がる; to get excited; 
レベルが上がる; to level up; 
声が上がる; to raise one's voice
〜上がる; 
少し上がる; to go up a little; 
どんどん上がる; to go up and up

分ける / To Separate Something, To Divide Something, To Share Something, To Split Something / わける
〜を分ける; 
それを分ける; to divide that; 
これを分ける; to divide this;
人を分ける; to divide people up
〜に分ける; 
三回に分ける; to divide into three;
グループに分ける; to divide into groups; 
二つに分ける; to divide into two
〜分ける; 
うまく分ける; to divide well; 
こまかく分ける; to divide into small parts;
大きく分ける; to divide briefly
Let’s split this meat bun between two people.|このにくまんを二人で分けましょう。
It was a decision that spelt the difference between life and death.|生しを分けるけつだんになった。
If you split the pizza, could you give me the bigger half?|ピザを半分に分けるなら、大きい方を下さい。

下がる / To Get Lower, To Fall, To Drop, To Come Down, To Hang Down / さがる
〜が下がる; 
モチベーションが下がる; motivation goes down;
コストが下がる; costs go down; 
レベルが下がる; the level goes down
〜下がる;
どんどん下がる; to go lower and lower; 
さらに下がる; to go further down;
少し下がる; to lower a little
〜に下がる; 
下に下がる; to go down;
半分に下がる; to go halfway down;
うしろに下がる; to go backwards, to step back
Stock prices all over the world fell.|せかいじゅうのかぶかが下がった。
My temperature dropped to 37℃.|ねつが三十七どに下がりました。
Unfasten your belt so that your pants will hang down.|ズボンが下がるようにベルトをゆるめなさい。

兄 / Older Brother, Big Brother, Elder Brother / あに
兄の〜; 
兄の子; my older brother's child; 
兄の友人; my older brother's friend;
兄の会社; my older brother's company
兄は〜; 
兄はいそがしい; my big brother is busy; 
兄はきびしい; my big brother is strict; 
兄はやさしい; my big brother is kind
兄に〜; 
兄にもらう; my big brother gives me; 
兄に当たる; to be hard on one's big brother; 
兄に言う; to tell one's big brother
〜の兄; 
上の兄; my eldest brother; 
母の兄; my mother's older brother; 
自分の兄; my own big brother
兄が〜; 
兄が言う; my big brother says; 
兄が来る; my big brother comes; 
兄がいる; to have an older brother
You look like my older brother, Mr. Yamashita.|山下さんはわたしの兄ににていますね。
A month ago, my older brother came home with a black labrador.|一ヶ月まえに兄がくろラブをつれていえにかえってきました。
My older brother likes eating tofu covered in coffee.|兄は、とうふにコーヒーをかけてたべるのがすきだ。

皮 / Skin, Hide / かわ 
〜の皮; 
木の皮; tree bark; 
ギョーザの皮; a gyoza wrapper;
玉ねぎの皮; onion peel
皮を〜; 
皮をのこす; to leave the skin;
皮をはぐ; to peel off the skin; 
皮をむく; to peel off the skin
皮が〜; 
皮がむける; the skin peels off;
皮がはがれる; the skin comes off; 
皮がめくれる; the skin starts to peel
皮〜; 
皮つき; skin-on, with skin; 
皮ごと; without removing the skin
皮の〜; 
皮のあつみ; the thickness of the skin; 
皮の色; skin color;
皮の下; under the skin
There were orange peels laying in the garden.|にわに、みかんの皮がおちていました。
I bought a small natural cowhide rug on Rakuten.|らく天で、天ねんの牛の皮でできた小さいラグをかった。
My jacket is made of 100% dragon skin.|俺のジャケットは、100%竜の皮でできているんだ。

交ぜる / To Mix Something / まぜる
〜を交ぜる; 
男子と女子を交ぜる; to mix boys and girls;
三色の糸を交ぜる; to mix three colors of thread;
米とコーンを交ぜる; to mix rice and corn
Mix the cards up well, please.|トランプをよく交ぜてください。
Why did you mix one woman into group with a bunch of men?|どうしてたくさんの男たちの中に女を一人交ぜたんだ？
It’s dangerous to mix tofu and puffer fish.|豆腐と河豚を交ぜるのは危険です。

大会 / Convention, Tournament, Event / たいかい
大会で〜; 
大会で会う; to meet at a tournament; 
大会で走る; to run in a race;
大会でたたかう; to fight in the tournament
大会に〜; 
大会にエントリーする; to enter a tournament; 
大会に出る; to take part in a tournament; 
大会に行く; to go to a tournament, to go to a convention
〜大会;
花火大会; a firework display; 
マラソン大会; a marathon;
スポーツ大会; a sports event
大会〜; 
大会中止; tournament cancellation, conference cancellation;
大会スタッフ; tournament staff, conference staff; 
大会プログラム; tournament program, conference program
大会の〜; 
大会のパンフレット; convention brochure, tournament brochure; 
大会のプログラム; tournament program, conference program; 
大会のスケジュール; tournament schedule, conference schedule
I am participating in the soccer tournament on Sunday.|日よう日は、サッカーの大会に出じょうします。
'At fireworks events, ice cream sells well.|花火大会では、アイスクリームがよく売れます。
I won the marathon because I couldn’t stop farting and all the other runners slowed down whenever they smelled them.
  私がマラソン大会で優勝したのは、オナラを止めることができず、他のランナーがその臭いを嗅ぐたびにペースを落としていったからだ。

会う / To Meet, To Encounter / あう
〜に会う; 
人に会う; to meet people; 
先生に会う; to meet the teacher; 
母に会う; to meet my mother
〜で会う; 
外で会う; to meet outside;
二人で会う; to meet in private; 
ロンドンで会う; to meet in London
〜会う;
はじめて会う; to meet for the first time; 
バッタリ会う; to bump into each other; 
よく会う; to see each other often
〜と会う;
先生と会う; to meet with the teacher;
友人と会う; to meet with friends; 
人と会う; to meet with people
We’re meeting on Sunday.|日よう日に会う。
I ran into Koichi at the Portland airport.|ポートランドくうこうでばったりコウイチに会いました。
I get to meet my favorite actor tomorrow afternoon.|明日の午後、大好きな俳優に会えるんです！

光 / Light, Sunlight / ひかり
光を〜;
光をはなつ; to cast light; 
光を見る; to see light;
光を出す; to emit light
光が〜;
光が当たる; the light shines on something;
光が入る; light comes in; 
光が見える; can see light
〜の光; 
ライトの光; the light from a light; 
月の光; moonlight; 
日の光; sunlight
〜光; 
青い光; blue light; 
赤い光; red light;
白い光; white light
光〜; 
光センサー; a light sensor;
光エネルギー; light energy; 
光ファイバー; an optical fiber
The light from the sun is blinding, so please close the curtains.|太ようの光がまぶしいので、カーテンをしめてください。
In the moonlight, your teeth look just like pearls, Kanae.|月の光にてらされて、かなえちゃんの歯がまるでパールのように見えるよ。
There is still a slight glimmer of hope left for your child who was lost in North Korea.|北朝鮮で行方不明になったあなたの子供には、まだ微かに希望の光が残っている。

光年 / Light-year / こうねん
〜光年; 
150光年; 150 light years; 
1.19光年; 1.19 light years; 
1光年; one light year
It is four one hundred millionths of a light-year from the earth to the moon.|ちきゅうから月までは、一おく分の四光年です。
If we go north from the center of Portland for four light-years, where will we be?|ポートランドの中しんから北の方に四光年すすんだら、どこにつきますか。
A light-year is the distance that light can travel over the course of one year. You are 10,000 light-years too early to be facing me.
  光年とは、光の速度で1年間進み続け到達出来る距離だ。貴様が俺と対決しようなんて、一万光年早いわ。

月光 / Moonlight, Moonbeam / げっこう
月光に〜; 
月光にきらめく; to twinkle in the moonlight;
月光にうかぶ; to glow in the moonlight;
月光にかがやく; to shine in the moonlight
月光の〜; 
月光のかがやき; the brightness of moonlight; 
月光の下; in the moonlight; 
月光のドライブ; a drive in the moonlight
The moonlight was very beautiful that night.|そのよるは、月光がとてもきれいでした。
The bright moonlight was beaming down onto a white flower.|一りんの白い花に、月光がさえざえとふりそそいでいた。
She looked so beautiful in the moonlight.|月光に照らされた彼女は、とても美しかった。

日光 / Sunlight / にっこう
Bathing too long in the sunlight isn’t good for your body.|日光をあびすぎるのは体によくない。
I'm being as careful as possible to not get exposed to direct sunlight.|できるだけちょくしゃ日光にさらされないよう気をつけています。
Seeing sunlight always makes me sneeze for some reason.|何故か日光を見るといつもくしゃみが出ます。

同じ / Same / おなじ
〜同じ; 
ほぼ同じ; almost the same;
まったく同じ; exactly the same; 
ほとんど同じ; nearly the same
同じ〜; 
同じこと; the same thing;
同じクラス; the same class; 
同じくらい; roughly the same
同じに〜;
同じに見える; to look the same; 
同じになる; to be the same;
同じにする; to make something the same
I meet the same person every day.|毎日、同じ人に会います。
This exam had almost the same questions as last time.|今回のしけんは、ぜん回とほぼ同じ内ようでした。
I want to make ramen that tastes the same as that shop’s no matter what.|あの店と同じ味のラーメンがどうしても作りたいんだ。

同日 / Same Day, The Same Day / どうじつ
同日に〜; 
同日にオープンする; to open on the same day; 
同日にある; to be on the same day; 
同日に生まれる; to be born on the same day
Those were launched on the same day.|それらは、同日にはつばいされました
The bands I like have concerts in different music clubs on the same day and I'm really not sure which one I should go to.|すきなバンドのライブがちがうはこで同日にかぶっていて、どれにいこうかちょうぜつまよっています。
On the same day of my father’s death, Apollo 11 succeeded in landing on the moon’s surface.|父の死と同日に、アポロ11号が月面着陸に成功した。

〜回 / Times, Number Of Times, Time / かい
〜回; 
二回; twice;
三回; three times;
一回; once
I’ve been to Japan once.|日本に一回行ったことがあります。
I've made plans to swim from America to Japan, but they've been put on hold eight different times now.|アメリカから日本までおよいでわたるけいかくを立てたが、もう八回ほどと中で中止になっている。
I can’t count the number of times I’ve eaten sand.|何回砂を食べたか自分でも数えきれないよ。

回る / To Revolve, To Go Around, To Rotate / まわる
〜が回る; 
目が回る; to get dizzy; 
モーターが回る; the motor turns; 
カメラが回る; the camera rolls
〜を回る; 
シアトル市を回る; to go around Seattle; 
コーナーを回る; to turn a corner; 
会社を回る; to visit companies
〜に回る; 
スムーズに回る; to go smoothly;
いっしょに回る; to go around together; 
あいさつに回る; to go around greeting people
I went around 18 holes with a customer today.|今日は、おきゃくさんと１８ホールを回りました。
That 100 yen coin is still spinning on the desk.|百円玉はまだつくえの上で回っています。
Those kittens revolve around their mother like the planets revolve around the sun.|惑星が太陽の周りを回るように、その子猫たちが親猫の周りを回っている。

一回 / One Time, Once / いっかい
一回〜; 
一回だけ; only once; 
一回ずつ; once each, one at a time; 
一回きり; only once
Please say it once more.|もう一回、言ってください。
I take a shower once a day during the week, but not at all over the weekend.|平日は一日に一回シャワーをあびますが、休日はぜんぜんあびません。
Do you want it one more time, honey?|もう一回欲しいのかい、ハニー？

今回 / This Time / こんかい 
今回は〜; 
今回は大きい; it's bigger this time; 
今回は少ない; there's less this time;
今回は多い; there's more this time
今回の〜; 
今回のイベント; this event; 
今回のケース; this case; 
今回のテーマ; the theme of this session
I decided to pass this time.|今回は、やめておきます。
I was the first place winner at this marathon.|今回のマラソン大会では一いでした。
I’ll drive the fishing boat this time because last time you drove it, we almost ran into the shore.|前回お前が運転した時は、岸にぶつかりそうになったじゃん。だから今回は俺が釣り船を運転するよ。

毎回 / Every Time, Each Time / まいかい
毎回の〜; 
毎回のトレーニング; every training session; 
毎回のテスト; a test for each time, every test; 
毎回のアンケート; a survey for each time
毎回〜; 
毎回いる; to be there every time; 
毎回ちがう; to be different every time; 
毎回する; to do something every time
I enter this marathon every time.|このマラソン大会には、毎回出じょうしています。
Koichi wiggles during each meeting.|コウイチは毎回ミーティングのと中でクネクネうごく。
Every time I try to smile, my gums start bleeding.|笑おうとすると、毎回歯茎から血が出始める。

多い / Many, Much, Lots Of / おおい
〜が多い;
人が多い; there are many people; 
車が多い; there are many cars; 
人口が多い; the population is large
There is too much food.|このりょうりは多すぎます。
There are many people who firmly believe that they are right.|「自分は正しい」とおもいこんでいる人は多い。
I wasn’t able to sleep because there were far too many people on the train, so I just sang loudly instead.|電車にはとても多くの乗客が乗っていたので、眠ることはできなかったが、大声で歌うことはできた。

多分 / Maybe, Perhaps, Probably / たぶん
多分〜; 
多分おくれる; probably late; 
多分かわいい; probably cute; 
多分オッケー; probably okay
Maybe the umbrella is outside.|かさは、多分外にあります。
Perhaps, she is a cosplayer.|多分、レイヤーさんなのかもしれないよ。
It’s probably going to snow tomorrow, so let’s make a snowman.|明日の夜は多分雪になるから、雪だるまを作ろう。

当たる / To Be Right, To Be On Target, To Touch, To Hit / あたる
〜が当たる; 
日光が当たる; sunlight hits, sunlight shines on; 
日が当たる; the sun hits, the sun shines; 
光が当たる; the light hits, the light shines
〜に当たる; 
クジに当たる; to win the lottery;
これに当たる; to hit this one
I’m glad my guess was right.|自分の予想が当たって、嬉しいです。
If a person was hit with a stone, what would you do?|人に石が当たったらどうするんだ。
In a packed train, my hand accidentally touched the butt of the woman next to me and I was so worried I’d be mistaken for a molester.
  まんいんでん車で、手がとなりの女のしりに当たってしまい、ちかんにまちがえられたらどうしようと不あんでいっぱいになった。

当たり / A Success, Success, Hit, Guess / あたり
当たり〜; 
当たりどころ; the spot where something hits; 
当たりくじ; a winning lottery ticket; 
当たり外れ; winning or losing the lottery
〜当たり; 
一日当たり; per day; 
月当たり; per month; 
一人当たり; per person
The odds of winning the lottery are very low.|たからくじで当たりが出るかくりつはとてもひくいです。
Such a weak-hit grounder can't be a hit.|あんなしょぼい当たりのゴロでヒットになるわけがない。
The party I threw for my father’s 50th birthday was a success and he even found a new girlfriend there.|僕が開いた父さんの５０歳の誕生日パーティーは大当たりで、父さんはそこで新しい彼女まで見つけてしまった。

毎月 / Every Month, Monthly / まいつき, まいげつ
毎月の〜; 
毎月のイベント; monthly events; 
毎月のテーマ; monthly themes; 
毎月のローン; monthly loans
There is a test at my school every month.|うちの学こうでは、毎月テストがあります。
Although my family wasn't rich, my parents sent a living allowance to me when I was in university.|ゆうふくないえではありませんでしたが、わたしが大学生のとき、りょうしんは毎月生かつひをしおくりしてくれました。
How much do you pay for rent each month?|毎月どのくらい家賃を払っていますか？

毎日 / Every Day, Daily / まいにち
〜毎日; 
つらい毎日; hard days; 
たのしい毎日; fun days; 
いそがしい毎日; busy days
毎日〜; 
毎日たのしい; every day is fun; 
毎日つづける; to continue every day; 
毎日考える; to consider every day
I study every day at a Japanese language school.|わたしは日本ご学こうで、毎日べんきょうしています。
I'm commuting from Nagoya to Americamura in Osaka every day.|名古やから、大さかにあるアメリカ村に毎日かよっています。
I eat anywhere between 17-21 cheeseburgers every day.|毎日17から21個のチーズバーガーを食べます。

毎年 / Every Year, Yearly, Annually, Each Year / まいとし, まいねん
毎年〜; 
毎年多い; every year there are many;
毎年五月; every May;
毎年行く; to go every year
毎年の〜;
毎年のワクチン; an annual vaccine; 
毎年のデータ; annual data; 
毎年のたのしみ; a yearly treat
Where does Yamada go for her trip every year?|山田さんは、毎年どこにりょ行に行きますか？
That singer hints at retiring every year, so he must be saying it again this time just to get people to react.|あのか手は毎年引たいを口にしているので、きっと今回もただのつりでしょう。
I’ve built a new door for the Johnson family every year for the past decade. Why don’t they just stop letting the troll use it?|
  私は、ジョンソンさん一家のために、10年間毎年新しい扉を建てている。どうしてジョンソンさんたちはトロールに扉を使わせないようにしないのだろうか。

米 / Rice / こめ
米を〜; 
米をもらう; to get rice;
米をたべる; to eat rice; 
米を作る; to make rice
〜米; 
おいしい米; delicious rice;
うまい米; yummy rice;
いい米; good rice
I forgot to buy rice.|米をかうのをわすれてしまいました。
I heard that the weight of 100 million yen is about 10kg, so I tried to imagine what it would be like to hold 100 million yen while holding a bag of 10kg rice.
  １おく円のおもさはやく１０キロときいたので、１０キロのお米のふくろをだきしめながら、１おく円をもっているところをそうぞうしてみた。
My favorite breakfast consists of uncooked rice and miso soup.|私の一番好きな朝ごはんは、生米と味噌汁です。

羽 / Feathers, Feather, Wing, Wings / はね
羽が〜; 
羽がはえる; feathers grow, wings grow;
羽がある; to have wings;
羽がうつくしい; beautiful wings
羽を〜; 
羽をつける; to attach wings, to attach feathers; 
羽をのばす; to stretch one's wings, to relax; 
羽を広げる; to spread one's wings
The small bird flapped its wings.|小とりは、羽をパタパタうごかしました。
I have eaten deep-fried chicken wings before, but I've never eaten deep-fried butterfly wings.|手羽先のからあげはたべたことがあるけど、ちょうちょうの羽のからあげはたべたことがありません。
"Do you know what kind of bird this feather is from?" he asked me, holding out some of his own nose hair.|「この羽、どの鳥の羽か分かるかな？」と彼は自分の鼻毛を持ちながら聞いてきた。

考える / To Think About, To Consider, To Give Thought / かんがえる
〜を考える; 
バランスを考える; to think about balance; 
そんなことを考える; to think about that sort of thing;
人生を考える; to think about life
〜に考える; 
大切に考える; to think carefully;
いっしょに考える; to think together; 
まじめに考える; to think seriously
考える〜; 
考えること; thinking;
考えるとき; when one thinks about something; 
考える人; people who think
〜と考える; 
人と考える; to think with other people;
チャンスと考える; to consider something an opportunity; 
同じと考える; to think the same way
Please let me think about it a little.|少し考えさせてください。
Don't think. Just feel!|考えるな！かんじろ！
My daughter thinks that the movie Titanic would have been better if the ship never sank and everyone went to Disneyland instead.
  私の娘は、もしタイタニック号が沈まなければ、みんなその代わりにディズニーランドに行くことができて、もっといい映画になったのにと考える。

肉 / Meat / にく
肉の〜; 
肉のかたまり; a lump of meat;
肉のうまみ; the deliciousness of meat; 
肉の色; the color of meat
〜の肉; 
牛の肉; beef;
おなかの肉; belly flab; 
スーパーの肉; meat from the supermarket
肉〜; 
肉エキス; meat extract; 
肉うどん; udon noodles with meat;
肉そば; soba noodles with meat
〜肉; 
ロース肉; a loin of meat;
ヒレ肉; a fillet of meat;
ラム肉; lamb meat
肉を〜; 
肉を切る; to cut meat;
肉を出す; to serve meat; 
肉をたべる; to eat meat
肉が〜; 
肉がおちる; to lose flab, to slim down; 
肉がつく; to gain flab, to get chubby; 
肉がはみ出す; the meat sticks out, the flab sticks out
On Wednesday, meat is cheap.|水よう日は、肉がやすいです。
Among beef, pork, and chicken, which meat do you like the best?|牛肉とぶた肉ととり肉の中ではどれが一ばんすきですか。
Meat is the most important component between two slices of bread.|お肉は、二枚の食パンに挟まれる、もっとも重要な具材です。

牛肉 / Beef / ぎゅうにく
牛肉の〜; 
牛肉のステーキ; beef steak;
牛肉のうまみ; the deliciousness of beef; 
牛肉のパック; packs of beef
牛肉〜; 
牛肉メニュー; the beef menu; 
牛肉コロッケ; beef croquettes; 
牛肉ミンチ; minced beef
牛肉を〜; 
牛肉を切る; to cut beef; 
牛肉をもらう; to receive some beef, to take beef; 
牛肉をたべる; to eat beef
〜牛肉;
スライスした牛肉; sliced beef; 
ブランド牛肉; name-brand beef, high quality beef;
おいしい牛肉; delicious beef
〜の牛肉;
スーパーの牛肉; supermarket beef; 
今回の牛肉; the beef this time; 
生の牛肉; raw beef
I got off the train at a station near my home and went to the grocery store to buy beef.|いえのちかくのえきででんしゃをおりて、スーパーに牛肉をかいに行きました。
Last year, the import of UK beef was resumed.|去年、えいこくさん牛肉のゆ入がさいかいされました。
The beef is so undercooked. I may have a kitchen nightmare tonight because of this.|牛肉はありえないくらい生焼けだ。この牛肉のせいで今夜はキッチンの悪夢を見ることになりそうだ。

皮肉 / Irony, Sarcasm, Ironic, Sarcastic / ひにく
皮肉な〜;
皮肉なもの; something ironic;
皮肉なこと; something ironic; 
皮肉な見方; a cynical way of looking at something
皮肉〜; 
皮肉っぽい; kind of sarcastic; 
皮肉だ; it's sarcastic;
皮肉たっぷり; full of sarcasm
皮肉を〜; 
皮肉を言う; to be sarcastic; 
皮肉をぶつける; to lash out at someone with sarcasm
皮肉に〜; 
皮肉になる; to become cynical; 
皮肉にきこえる; to sound sarcastic
That’s really ironic, isn’t it?|まったく皮肉なものですね。
That butcher is a such a sarcastic person.|あの肉やさんは、大した皮肉やだよ。
Not one thing in the song "Ironic" is a proper example of irony.|「Ironic」という曲の中に、うまい皮肉はひとつも見当たらなかった。

自分 / Oneself, Myself, Self / じぶん
自分が〜; 
自分がやる; to do something by oneself; 
自分が作る; to make something on one's own;
自分がする; to do something by oneself
自分の〜; 
自分の考え; one's thoughts;
自分の心; one's mind; 
自分の人生; one's own life
自分〜; 
自分たち; ourselves; 
自分一人; only oneself; 
自分用; for my own use
自分で〜;
自分で作る; can make something oneself;
自分でできる; can do something oneself;
自分で考える; to think for oneself
自分を〜; 
自分を大切にする; to take care of oneself; 
自分をせめる; to blame oneself; 
自分をかえる; to change oneself
I finished the homework perfectly all by myself.|ちゃんと自分でしゅくだいをしました。
That's the color you can only choose if you are confident with yourself, isn't it?|自分に自しんがないとえらべない色だよね。
Of course I talk to myself. Sometimes I need expert advice.|もちろん私は自分と話しますよ。だって、時には専門家の意見が必要ですもの。

自立 / Independence, Self Reliance, Independent / じりつ
自立を〜;
自立をめざす; to aim for self-reliance; 
自立をサポートする; to support self-reliance; 
自立を考える; to think about independence
〜の自立; 
本当の自立; real independence;
ホームレスの自立; independence for the homeless;
人々の自立; people's independence
自立の〜; 
自立のサポート; support for independence;
自立のプロセス; a process for independence
My son is finally starting to be self reliant.|むすこもようやく自立しはじめました。
I'm thinking of being on my own, if I recover from autonomic dysfunction.|自立しんけいしっちょうしょうがなおったら、自立しようとおもっています。
Share this if you are a strong, independent Japanese woman who doesn’t need a man.|もしあなたが強くて自立した日本人女性で、男なんて必要ないというなら、これをシェアしてください。

色 / Color / いろ
〜色; 
オレンジ色; orange color; 
クリーム色; cream color; 
同じ色; the same color
色が〜;
色がかわる; the color changes;
色がつく; color is added; 
色がちがう; the color is different
色の〜; 
色のバリエーション; color variation; 
色のバランス; color balance; 
色のコントラスト; color contrast
〜の色; 
花の色; the color of flowers;
目の色; eye color;
他の色; other colors
色を〜; 
色をつける; to add color;
色をかえる; to change the color;
色をぬる; to paint
色〜; 
色づかい; use of color;
色ちがい; different colors; 
色あざやか; vivid colors
What color do you like?|何色がすきですか。
Bell peppers turn from green to red when they ripen.|ピーマンはうれるとみどり色から赤色になります。
I’m color blind, so my reds appear orange and my blues appear black.|僕は色盲なので、赤色はオレンジ色に、青色は黒色のように見えます。

色々 / Various / いろいろ
色々な〜; 
色々なタイプ; various types;
色々なジャンル; various genres; 
色々な人; various people
I’ve read various types of novels.|色々な小せつをよみました。
After thinking about various things, I've decided to hold a takoyaki party on Sunday.|色々考えたけっか、日よう日にたこやきパーティーをすることにしました。
There are various species of trolls that live under my bed.|私のベッドの下に住んでいるトロールには色々な種類がいます。

水色 / Sky Blue, Light Blue, Aqua Blue, Sky Blue Color, Light Blue Color, Aqua Blue Color / みずいろ
水色に〜; 
水色になる; to become light blue;
水色にする; to make light blue, to go with light blue;
水色に見える; to look light blue
水色の〜; 
水色のワンピース; a light blue dress; 
水色の花; light blue flowers;
水色の空; a light blue sky
I want that light blue bag.|あの水色のバッグがほしいんですが。
Tofugu T-shirt is breezy sky blue.|トーフグのTシャツは、さわやかな水色です。
Why is the sky light blue today?|どうして今日の空は水色なんだろう？

行く / To Go / いく
〜に行く;
トイレに行く; to go to the bathroom; 
あそびに行く; to go play; 
日本に行く; to go to Japan
〜で行く; 
一人で行く; to go alone; 
バスで行く; to go by bus;
車で行く; to go by car
〜へ行く; 
イギリスへ行く; to go to the U.K.;
大学へ行く; to go to university; 
レストランへ行く; to go to a restaurant
I'm about to go shopping.|今から、かいものに行きます。
Something came up, so I'm not able to make it.|ようじができて、行けなくなってしまいました。
I wouldn’t want to go to Mars because they don’t have Taco Bell there.|タコベルが無いので火星には行きたくない。

行き / Train Direction, Bound For / ゆき, いき
行きの〜; 
行きのフライト; an outbound flight; 
行きのバス; the bus to go somewhere;
行きのフェリー; an outbound ferry
〜行き;
ニューヨーク行き; bound for New York;
ディズニーランド行き; bound for Disneyland; 
羽田行き; bound for Haneda
One shinkansen ticket for Shin-Osaka, please.|しん大さか行きのしんかんせんのきっぷをください。
I'm thinking of walking both ways.|行きもかえりもあるくつもりです。
This train is bound for Tofugu Office Station.|この電車は、トーフグオフィス行きです。

西 / West / にし
西に〜;
西にある; to be located to the west; 
西に行く; to go west; 
西にすすむ; to proceed west
西へ〜; 
西へすすむ; to proceed west;
西へ走る; to run west; 
西へ行く; to go west
西の〜;
西の方; westward; 
西の空; the western sky;
西のはし; the western edge
The building on the west side of the hospital is my apartment.|びょういんの西のたてものがわたしのアパートです。
Darin is heading west.|ダリンは、西にむかっています。
Meanwhile in West Portland, the Crabigator was crossing the road.|その頃、西ポートランドでは、鰐蟹がその道を渡っていた。

北西 / Northwest / ほくせい
北西へ〜; 
北西へ行く; to go northwest; 
北西へすすむ; to proceed northwest; 
北西へむかう; to head northwest
北西の〜; 
北西の空; the northwestern sky;
北西の山; a northwestern mountain;
北西の角; Northwest corner
北西に〜; 
北西にある; to be located to the northwest;
北西に見える; to be visible in the northwest; 
北西に行く; to go northwest
The airplane is heading northwest.|ひこうきは、北西にむかっています。
If you drive about an hour and a half northwest from Portland, you will arrive at a city called Seaside.|ポートランドから車で一じかん半ほど北西の方にいくと、シーサイドというまちにつきます。
I lost my pantyhose somewhere northwest of here.|ここから北西の方角のどこかに、パンストを落とした。

何千 / Thousands, Several Thousands, How Many Thousands / なんぜん
何千 + counter;
何千台; several thousand vehicles, several thousand machines; 
何千人; several thousand people;
何千回; several thousand times
I’ve practiced thousands of times.|何千回も、れんしゅうしました。
Suddenly, thousands of bacon strips dropped from sky.|とつぜん、何千ものベーコンがそらからふってきた。
Victims of the titan attack numbered in the thousands.|巨人攻撃の被害者は、何千人にものぼった。
How many thousand yen?|何千円ですか？

何 / What / なに, なん
何が〜; 
何がほしい; What do you want?; 
何がおいしい; What tastes good?;
何がある; What is there?
What would you say?|何と言いますか。
Who do you think you are?|あなた、何さまのつもりですか。
What was the name of that drink we had at the hotel in Thailand?|僕達がタイのホテルで飲んだ飲み物の名前は何？

何人 / How Many People / なんにん
何人〜; 
何人くらい; roughly how many people;
何人分; for how many people;
何人か; several people
何人も〜; 
何人も来る; a lot of people come;
何人も見る; to see many people; 
何人もいる; there are many people
How many people participated in the party?|そのパーティーには、何人の人がさんかしましたか。
How many people have been killed by the killer fish in this pond?|今までこの池で何人の人々がさつ人ぎょにころされましたか。
How many people will be joining us for dinner?|夕食にはいったい何人の人がやって来るんですか？

何月 / What Month, Which Month / なんがつ
何月〜; 
何月何日; What month and what day?;
何月まで; until what month; 
何月くらい; around what month
What month do you start school?|学こうは何月にはじまりますか。
When did it happen? What year, what month, what day, what time, what second was it? How many times did Earth spin when it happened?|それって何年何月何日何びょう、ちきゅうが何回回ったとき？
What month were you born in, Ms. Tanaka?|田中さんは何月生まれですか？

何日 / How Many Days, What Day, Which Day / なんにち
〜何日; 
何月何日; What month and what day?;
今日何日; What's the date today?;
一月何日; What day in January?
How many days will you take off from your part-time job?|アルバイト、何日休むんですか。
What day's good for you?|何日がいい？
How many days were you stuck in the elevator?|エレベーターから何日出られなかったんですか。

何年 / What Year, How Many Years / なんねん
何年の〜;
何年のはなし; What year is the story from?; 
何年のこと; What year was that?; 
何年のニュース; What year is the news from?
What year were you born?|何年生まれですか。
What year did your kid enter college?|おたくのお子さんは、何年に大学に入りましたか。
How many years did the American Civil War last?|アメリカの南北戦争は、何年間続いたんですか？

何回 / How Many Times / なんかい
何回〜; 
何回くらい; roughly how many times; 
何回目; how many times; 
何回まで; up to how many times
Including this time, how many times have you come to Japan?|日本へ来るのは、今回で何回目ですか。
This video is so funny that I have to watch it a bunch of times.|このビデオ、おもしろすぎて何回も見てしまうわ。
How many times do we have to have this conversation until it finally sinks in? I am not Luke Skywalker. I played him in a movie. My name is Mark. I live in Chicago.
  事をはっきりさせるまでに、いったい何回この会話を繰り返さないといけねえんだよ？だから俺はリューク・スカイウォーカーじゃねえんだよ。映画でその役を演じただけだっつーの。俺の名前はマークだ。シカゴに住んでる。

学ぶ / To Learn, To Study In Depth, To Study / まなぶ
〜を学ぶ; 
マナーを学ぶ; to learn manners; 
ルールを学ぶ; to learn the rules;
テクニックを学ぶ; to learn a technique
〜で学ぶ; 
本で学ぶ; to learn from books; 
大学で学ぶ; to learn at university; 
自分で学ぶ; to learn by oneself
I’m learning Japanese through self-study.|わたしは、どく学で日本ごを学んでいます。
Why don't you learn how to make weird faces and poses with Tofugu, instead of studying Japanese?|日本ごをべんきょうするのはやめて、トーフグといっしょにへんがおとへんなポーズを学びませんか？
Learning is important, but perhaps what’s more important is how you learn.|学ぶことは大切だけど、おそらくもっと大切なのはどのように学ぶかということじゃないだろうか。

学生 / Student / がくせい
学生の〜; 
学生のみなさん; dear students, to all students;
学生のニーズ; students' needs; 
学生の声; students' voices
学生が〜; 
学生がする; the students do; 
学生がいる; there are students; 
学生が学ぶ; the students learn
学生〜;
学生たち; students; 
学生さん; a student, students; 
学生ビザ; a student visa
Which parts will students study at home today?|学生は今日、うちでどこをべんきょうしますか。
Do you have student discount?|学生わり引ってありますか？
"We are all students of life," my dad said while farting.|「我々はみな人生の学生だ。」と言いながら、父はおならをした。

学年 / School Grade, Grade In School, School Year, Year In School / がくねん
学年の〜; 
学年のおわり; the end of the school year; 
学年の子; the children in a grade; 
学年の先生; the teacher of a grade
〜の学年; 
他の学年; other grades;
それぞれの学年; each grade; 
上の学年; upper grades
He is in the same year as my older brother.|かれは、兄と同じ学年です。
Tofugu not only has fans in early elementary school, but also elderly fans over 100 years old.|トーフグには、小学こうてい学年のファンもいれば、１００才をこえるファンもいる。
One third of the third grade threw up after school lunch.|あの給食の後、三年生の学年の三分の一が吐いた。












