見える / To Be Visible, To Be In Sight, Can See, To Seem / みえる
〜に見える; 
先に見える; can see something ahead; 
目に見える; to be visible; 
きれいに見える; to be clearly visible, to look clean
〜見える; 
よく見える; can see well; 
小さく見える; to look smaller; 
大きく見える; to look bigger
〜が見える; 
山が見える; can see mountains; 
光が見える; can see light; 
目が見える; to be able to see
The volcano is visible from here.|ここから火山が見える
|Can you see the red flag over there?|あそこの赤いはたが見えますか。
I'm really curious about how I seem to others.|自分が人からどう見えるのかがすごく気になる。

その他 / The Others, Other, Other Than That / そのほか, そのた
その他の〜; 
その他のバス; other buses;
その他のゲーム; other games;
その他の人; other people
There are many others.|その他色々あります。
Other than that, is there anything you'd like to say?|その他、何か言いたいことはありますか？
What should I do with the other garbage?|その他のゴミはどうすればいいですか。

止まる / To Stop / とまる
〜が止まる;
手が止まる; to pause in doing something; 
車が止まる; the car stops; 
なみだが止まる; the tears stop
〜に止まる; 
そこに止まる; to stop there; 
十パーセントに止まる; to stop at ten percent; 
目に止まる; to catch one's attention
〜は止まる; 
バスは止まる; the bus stops; 
エレベーターは止まる; the elevator stops; 
車は止まる; the car stops
The car stopped at the red signal.|あかしんごうで、くるまは止まりました。
|I was so surprised I thought my heart leapt into my mouth.|心ぞうが止まるかとおもった。
I couldn’t stop on the ice.|こおりの上で、止まることができなかった。

外れる / To Be Disconnected, To Come Off, To Be Off / はずれる
〜から外れる; 
メンバーから外れる; to be removed as a member, to be left off the team; 
ルートから外れる; to go off the route; 
コースから外れる; to go off course
〜が外れる; 
チェーンが外れる; the chain comes off;
戸が外れる; the door comes off; 
あごが外れる; the jaw dislocates
〜に外れる; 
クジに外れる; to miss out in a lottery;
上に外れる; to go too high and miss (a target); 
左に外れる; to come off to the left
The sliding door came off.|あみ戸が外れてしまいました。
I got injured, so I'm going to be taken off the starting players.|けがをして、スタメンから外れることになっちゃったんだ。
Since the plug was disconnected, Mr. Robot was no longer able to say, "thank you," anymore.|プラグが外れたので、Mr.ロボットはありがとうといえなくなった。

出す / To Take Out, To Hand Out, To Remove, To Turn In, To Put Out / だす
〜出す; 
まず出す; to put out first, to submit first; 
少し出す; to put out a little, to pay a little;
すぐ出す; to put out immediately, to submit right away
〜が出す; 
会社が出す; the company pays;
自分が出す; I put something out myself, I pay;
田中さんが出す; Mr. Tanaka puts something out, Mr. Tanaka pays
〜を出す; 
声を出す; to speak; 
手を出す; to put a hand out, to hit someone, to involve oneself;
お金を出す; to pay money
〜に出す; 
外に出す; to put something outside; 
口に出す; to speak out; 
声に出す; to put something into words
Please put the dictionary out on the desk.|つくえの上に、じしょを出してください。
That American removed all the venom he got from two rattle snakes out of his leg.|そのアメリカ人は、あしから二ひきのガラガラヘビにかまれたどくをぜんぶ出した。
The thief handed out all the goods he stole.|どろぼうはぬすんだものをすべて出してくばった。

立てる / To Stand Something Up, To Make Something, To Set Something Up / たてる
〜立てる; 
少し立てる; to set something up a little; 
きちんと立てる; to set up something properly; 
しっかり立てる; to set up something firmly
〜を立てる; 
プランを立てる; to make a plan;
音を立てる; to make a sound;
スケジュールを立てる; to make a schedule
How many candles will you put out?|ロウソクは、なん本立てますか？
I’m looking for an easel to stand this photo frame up on.|このしゃしん立てを立てるためのスタンドをさがしています。
Could you please stand some pencils up on my desk?|ぼくのつくえにえんぴつを立ててくれませんか？

生む / To Give Birth, To Produce / うむ
〜で生む; 
山で生む; to give birth in the mountains; 
自分で生む; to give birth by oneself;
一人で生む; to give birth alone
〜が生む;
メスが生む; the females give birth; 
社会が生む; society produces;
自分が生む; I will give birth
〜を生む; 
子犬を生む; to give birth to a puppy;
赤ちゃんを生む; to give birth to a baby;
子を生む; to give birth to a child
His remark produced problems.|かれのはつげんは、ぎもんを生んだ。
Please do not post things that could give rise to misunderstandings.|ごかいを生むようなとうこうはしないでください。
Even though it wasn’t my husband’s, I had no choice but to give birth to the baby.|おっとの子ではなかったが、生むしかなかった。

入れる / To Insert, To Put In / いれる
〜に入れる; 
手に入れる; to obtain something; 
口に入れる; to put in one's mouth; 
中に入れる; to put inside
〜を入れる;
水を入れる; to pour water into;
チェックを入れる; to check; 
力を入れる; to put pressure on
What will you put in the square?|しかくになにを入れますか。
Please insert twelve pieces of origami paper here.|ここにおりがみを十二まい入れてください。
I put a hamburger into the coffin.|わたしはハンバーガーをひつぎに入れた。

上がる / To Go Up, To Rise, To Be Raised, To Stop / あがる
〜に上がる; 
一気に上がる; to go up all at once; 
ステージに上がる; to go up on stage; 
リングに上がる; to step into the ring; 
上に上がる; to go up
〜で上がる; 
エスカレーターで上がる; to go up by the escalator;
かいだんで上がる; to go up by the stairs;
エレベーターで上がる; to go up by the elevator
〜が上がる;
テンションが上がる; to get excited; 
レベルが上がる; to level up; 
声が上がる; to raise one's voice
〜上がる; 
少し上がる; to go up a little; 
どんどん上がる; to go up and up

分ける / To Separate Something, To Divide Something, To Share Something, To Split Something / わける
〜を分ける; 
それを分ける; to divide that; 
これを分ける; to divide this;
人を分ける; to divide people up
〜に分ける; 
三回に分ける; to divide into three;
グループに分ける; to divide into groups; 
二つに分ける; to divide into two
〜分ける; 
うまく分ける; to divide well; 
こまかく分ける; to divide into small parts;
大きく分ける; to divide briefly
Let’s split this meat bun between two people.|このにくまんを二人で分けましょう。
It was a decision that spelt the difference between life and death.|生しを分けるけつだんになった。
If you split the pizza, could you give me the bigger half?|ピザを半分に分けるなら、大きい方を下さい。

下がる / To Get Lower, To Fall, To Drop, To Come Down, To Hang Down / さがる
〜が下がる; 
モチベーションが下がる; motivation goes down;
コストが下がる; costs go down; 
レベルが下がる; the level goes down
〜下がる;
どんどん下がる; to go lower and lower; 
さらに下がる; to go further down;
少し下がる; to lower a little
〜に下がる; 
下に下がる; to go down;
半分に下がる; to go halfway down;
うしろに下がる; to go backwards, to step back
Stock prices all over the world fell.|せかいじゅうのかぶかが下がった。
My temperature dropped to 37℃.|ねつが三十七どに下がりました。
Unfasten your belt so that your pants will hang down.|ズボンが下がるようにベルトをゆるめなさい。

兄 / Older Brother, Big Brother, Elder Brother / あに
兄の〜; 
兄の子; my older brother's child; 
兄の友人; my older brother's friend;
兄の会社; my older brother's company
兄は〜; 
兄はいそがしい; my big brother is busy; 
兄はきびしい; my big brother is strict; 
兄はやさしい; my big brother is kind
兄に〜; 
兄にもらう; my big brother gives me; 
兄に当たる; to be hard on one's big brother; 
兄に言う; to tell one's big brother
〜の兄; 
上の兄; my eldest brother; 
母の兄; my mother's older brother; 
自分の兄; my own big brother
兄が〜; 
兄が言う; my big brother says; 
兄が来る; my big brother comes; 
兄がいる; to have an older brother
You look like my older brother, Mr. Yamashita.|山下さんはわたしの兄ににていますね。
A month ago, my older brother came home with a black labrador.|一ヶ月まえに兄がくろラブをつれていえにかえってきました。
My older brother likes eating tofu covered in coffee.|兄は、とうふにコーヒーをかけてたべるのがすきだ。

皮 / Skin, Hide / かわ 
〜の皮; 
木の皮; tree bark; 
ギョーザの皮; a gyoza wrapper;
玉ねぎの皮; onion peel
皮を〜; 
皮をのこす; to leave the skin;
皮をはぐ; to peel off the skin; 
皮をむく; to peel off the skin
皮が〜; 
皮がむける; the skin peels off;
皮がはがれる; the skin comes off; 
皮がめくれる; the skin starts to peel
皮〜; 
皮つき; skin-on, with skin; 
皮ごと; without removing the skin
皮の〜; 
皮のあつみ; the thickness of the skin; 
皮の色; skin color;
皮の下; under the skin
There were orange peels laying in the garden.|にわに、みかんの皮がおちていました。
I bought a small natural cowhide rug on Rakuten.|らく天で、天ねんの牛の皮でできた小さいラグをかった。
My jacket is made of 100% dragon skin.|俺のジャケットは、100%竜の皮でできているんだ。

交ぜる / To Mix Something / まぜる
〜を交ぜる; 
男子と女子を交ぜる; to mix boys and girls;
三色の糸を交ぜる; to mix three colors of thread;
米とコーンを交ぜる; to mix rice and corn
Mix the cards up well, please.|トランプをよく交ぜてください。
Why did you mix one woman into group with a bunch of men?|どうしてたくさんの男たちの中に女を一人交ぜたんだ？
It’s dangerous to mix tofu and puffer fish.|豆腐と河豚を交ぜるのは危険です。

大会 / Convention, Tournament, Event / たいかい
大会で〜; 
大会で会う; to meet at a tournament; 
大会で走る; to run in a race;
大会でたたかう; to fight in the tournament
大会に〜; 
大会にエントリーする; to enter a tournament; 
大会に出る; to take part in a tournament; 
大会に行く; to go to a tournament, to go to a convention
〜大会;
花火大会; a firework display; 
マラソン大会; a marathon;
スポーツ大会; a sports event
大会〜; 
大会中止; tournament cancellation, conference cancellation;
大会スタッフ; tournament staff, conference staff; 
大会プログラム; tournament program, conference program
大会の〜; 
大会のパンフレット; convention brochure, tournament brochure; 
大会のプログラム; tournament program, conference program; 
大会のスケジュール; tournament schedule, conference schedule
I am participating in the soccer tournament on Sunday.|日よう日は、サッカーの大会に出じょうします。
'At fireworks events, ice cream sells well.|花火大会では、アイスクリームがよく売れます。
I won the marathon because I couldn’t stop farting and all the other runners slowed down whenever they smelled them.
  私がマラソン大会で優勝したのは、オナラを止めることができず、他のランナーがその臭いを嗅ぐたびにペースを落としていったからだ。

会う / To Meet, To Encounter / あう
〜に会う; 
人に会う; to meet people; 
先生に会う; to meet the teacher; 
母に会う; to meet my mother
〜で会う; 
外で会う; to meet outside;
二人で会う; to meet in private; 
ロンドンで会う; to meet in London
〜会う;
はじめて会う; to meet for the first time; 
バッタリ会う; to bump into each other; 
よく会う; to see each other often
〜と会う;
先生と会う; to meet with the teacher;
友人と会う; to meet with friends; 
人と会う; to meet with people
We’re meeting on Sunday.|日よう日に会う。
I ran into Koichi at the Portland airport.|ポートランドくうこうでばったりコウイチに会いました。
I get to meet my favorite actor tomorrow afternoon.|明日の午後、大好きな俳優に会えるんです！

光 / Light, Sunlight / ひかり
光を〜;
光をはなつ; to cast light; 
光を見る; to see light;
光を出す; to emit light
光が〜;
光が当たる; the light shines on something;
光が入る; light comes in; 
光が見える; can see light
〜の光; 
ライトの光; the light from a light; 
月の光; moonlight; 
日の光; sunlight
〜光; 
青い光; blue light; 
赤い光; red light;
白い光; white light
光〜; 
光センサー; a light sensor;
光エネルギー; light energy; 
光ファイバー; an optical fiber
The light from the sun is blinding, so please close the curtains.|太ようの光がまぶしいので、カーテンをしめてください。
In the moonlight, your teeth look just like pearls, Kanae.|月の光にてらされて、かなえちゃんの歯がまるでパールのように見えるよ。
There is still a slight glimmer of hope left for your child who was lost in North Korea.|北朝鮮で行方不明になったあなたの子供には、まだ微かに希望の光が残っている。

光年 / Light-year / こうねん
〜光年; 
150光年; 150 light years; 
1.19光年; 1.19 light years; 
1光年; one light year
It is four one hundred millionths of a light-year from the earth to the moon.|ちきゅうから月までは、一おく分の四光年です。
If we go north from the center of Portland for four light-years, where will we be?|ポートランドの中しんから北の方に四光年すすんだら、どこにつきますか。
A light-year is the distance that light can travel over the course of one year. You are 10,000 light-years too early to be facing me.
  光年とは、光の速度で1年間進み続け到達出来る距離だ。貴様が俺と対決しようなんて、一万光年早いわ。

月光 / Moonlight, Moonbeam / げっこう
月光に〜; 
月光にきらめく; to twinkle in the moonlight;
月光にうかぶ; to glow in the moonlight;
月光にかがやく; to shine in the moonlight
月光の〜; 
月光のかがやき; the brightness of moonlight; 
月光の下; in the moonlight; 
月光のドライブ; a drive in the moonlight
The moonlight was very beautiful that night.|そのよるは、月光がとてもきれいでした。
The bright moonlight was beaming down onto a white flower.|一りんの白い花に、月光がさえざえとふりそそいでいた。
She looked so beautiful in the moonlight.|月光に照らされた彼女は、とても美しかった。

日光 / Sunlight / にっこう
Bathing too long in the sunlight isn’t good for your body.|日光をあびすぎるのは体によくない。
I'm being as careful as possible to not get exposed to direct sunlight.|できるだけちょくしゃ日光にさらされないよう気をつけています。
Seeing sunlight always makes me sneeze for some reason.|何故か日光を見るといつもくしゃみが出ます。

同じ / Same / おなじ
〜同じ; 
ほぼ同じ; almost the same;
まったく同じ; exactly the same; 
ほとんど同じ; nearly the same
同じ〜; 
同じこと; the same thing;
同じクラス; the same class; 
同じくらい; roughly the same
同じに〜;
同じに見える; to look the same; 
同じになる; to be the same;
同じにする; to make something the same
I meet the same person every day.|毎日、同じ人に会います。
This exam had almost the same questions as last time.|今回のしけんは、ぜん回とほぼ同じ内ようでした。
I want to make ramen that tastes the same as that shop’s no matter what.|あの店と同じ味のラーメンがどうしても作りたいんだ。

同日 / Same Day, The Same Day / どうじつ
同日に〜; 
同日にオープンする; to open on the same day; 
同日にある; to be on the same day; 
同日に生まれる; to be born on the same day
Those were launched on the same day.|それらは、同日にはつばいされました
The bands I like have concerts in different music clubs on the same day and I'm really not sure which one I should go to.|すきなバンドのライブがちがうはこで同日にかぶっていて、どれにいこうかちょうぜつまよっています。
On the same day of my father’s death, Apollo 11 succeeded in landing on the moon’s surface.|父の死と同日に、アポロ11号が月面着陸に成功した。

〜回 / Times, Number Of Times, Time / かい
〜回; 
二回; twice;
三回; three times;
一回; once
I’ve been to Japan once.|日本に一回行ったことがあります。
I've made plans to swim from America to Japan, but they've been put on hold eight different times now.|アメリカから日本までおよいでわたるけいかくを立てたが、もう八回ほどと中で中止になっている。
I can’t count the number of times I’ve eaten sand.|何回砂を食べたか自分でも数えきれないよ。

回る / To Revolve, To Go Around, To Rotate / まわる
〜が回る; 
目が回る; to get dizzy; 
モーターが回る; the motor turns; 
カメラが回る; the camera rolls
〜を回る; 
シアトル市を回る; to go around Seattle; 
コーナーを回る; to turn a corner; 
会社を回る; to visit companies
〜に回る; 
スムーズに回る; to go smoothly;
いっしょに回る; to go around together; 
あいさつに回る; to go around greeting people
I went around 18 holes with a customer today.|今日は、おきゃくさんと１８ホールを回りました。
That 100 yen coin is still spinning on the desk.|百円玉はまだつくえの上で回っています。
Those kittens revolve around their mother like the planets revolve around the sun.|惑星が太陽の周りを回るように、その子猫たちが親猫の周りを回っている。

一回 / One Time, Once / いっかい
一回〜; 
一回だけ; only once; 
一回ずつ; once each, one at a time; 
一回きり; only once
Please say it once more.|もう一回、言ってください。
I take a shower once a day during the week, but not at all over the weekend.|平日は一日に一回シャワーをあびますが、休日はぜんぜんあびません。
Do you want it one more time, honey?|もう一回欲しいのかい、ハニー？

今回 / This Time / こんかい 
今回は〜; 
今回は大きい; it's bigger this time; 
今回は少ない; there's less this time;
今回は多い; there's more this time
今回の〜; 
今回のイベント; this event; 
今回のケース; this case; 
今回のテーマ; the theme of this session
I decided to pass this time.|今回は、やめておきます。
I was the first place winner at this marathon.|今回のマラソン大会では一いでした。
I’ll drive the fishing boat this time because last time you drove it, we almost ran into the shore.|前回お前が運転した時は、岸にぶつかりそうになったじゃん。だから今回は俺が釣り船を運転するよ。

毎回 / Every Time, Each Time / まいかい
毎回の〜; 
毎回のトレーニング; every training session; 
毎回のテスト; a test for each time, every test; 
毎回のアンケート; a survey for each time
毎回〜; 
毎回いる; to be there every time; 
毎回ちがう; to be different every time; 
毎回する; to do something every time
I enter this marathon every time.|このマラソン大会には、毎回出じょうしています。
Koichi wiggles during each meeting.|コウイチは毎回ミーティングのと中でクネクネうごく。
Every time I try to smile, my gums start bleeding.|笑おうとすると、毎回歯茎から血が出始める。

多い / Many, Much, Lots Of / おおい
〜が多い;
人が多い; there are many people; 
車が多い; there are many cars; 
人口が多い; the population is large
There is too much food.|このりょうりは多すぎます。
There are many people who firmly believe that they are right.|「自分は正しい」とおもいこんでいる人は多い。
I wasn’t able to sleep because there were far too many people on the train, so I just sang loudly instead.|電車にはとても多くの乗客が乗っていたので、眠ることはできなかったが、大声で歌うことはできた。

多分 / Maybe, Perhaps, Probably / たぶん
多分〜; 
多分おくれる; probably late; 
多分かわいい; probably cute; 
多分オッケー; probably okay
Maybe the umbrella is outside.|かさは、多分外にあります。
Perhaps, she is a cosplayer.|多分、レイヤーさんなのかもしれないよ。
It’s probably going to snow tomorrow, so let’s make a snowman.|明日の夜は多分雪になるから、雪だるまを作ろう。

当たる / To Be Right, To Be On Target, To Touch, To Hit / あたる
〜が当たる; 
日光が当たる; sunlight hits, sunlight shines on; 
日が当たる; the sun hits, the sun shines; 
光が当たる; the light hits, the light shines
〜に当たる; 
クジに当たる; to win the lottery;
これに当たる; to hit this one
I’m glad my guess was right.|自分の予想が当たって、嬉しいです。
If a person was hit with a stone, what would you do?|人に石が当たったらどうするんだ。
In a packed train, my hand accidentally touched the butt of the woman next to me and I was so worried I’d be mistaken for a molester.
  まんいんでん車で、手がとなりの女のしりに当たってしまい、ちかんにまちがえられたらどうしようと不あんでいっぱいになった。

当たり / A Success, Success, Hit, Guess / あたり
当たり〜; 
当たりどころ; the spot where something hits; 
当たりくじ; a winning lottery ticket; 
当たり外れ; winning or losing the lottery
〜当たり; 
一日当たり; per day; 
月当たり; per month; 
一人当たり; per person
The odds of winning the lottery are very low.|たからくじで当たりが出るかくりつはとてもひくいです。
Such a weak-hit grounder can't be a hit.|あんなしょぼい当たりのゴロでヒットになるわけがない。
The party I threw for my father’s 50th birthday was a success and he even found a new girlfriend there.|僕が開いた父さんの５０歳の誕生日パーティーは大当たりで、父さんはそこで新しい彼女まで見つけてしまった。

毎月 / Every Month, Monthly / まいつき, まいげつ
毎月の〜; 
毎月のイベント; monthly events; 
毎月のテーマ; monthly themes; 
毎月のローン; monthly loans
There is a test at my school every month.|うちの学こうでは、毎月テストがあります。
Although my family wasn't rich, my parents sent a living allowance to me when I was in university.|ゆうふくないえではありませんでしたが、わたしが大学生のとき、りょうしんは毎月生かつひをしおくりしてくれました。
How much do you pay for rent each month?|毎月どのくらい家賃を払っていますか？

毎日 / Every Day, Daily / まいにち
〜毎日; 
つらい毎日; hard days; 
たのしい毎日; fun days; 
いそがしい毎日; busy days
毎日〜; 
毎日たのしい; every day is fun; 
毎日つづける; to continue every day; 
毎日考える; to consider every day
I study every day at a Japanese language school.|わたしは日本ご学こうで、毎日べんきょうしています。
I'm commuting from Nagoya to Americamura in Osaka every day.|名古やから、大さかにあるアメリカ村に毎日かよっています。
I eat anywhere between 17-21 cheeseburgers every day.|毎日17から21個のチーズバーガーを食べます。

毎年 / Every Year, Yearly, Annually, Each Year / まいとし, まいねん
毎年〜; 
毎年多い; every year there are many;
毎年五月; every May;
毎年行く; to go every year
毎年の〜;
毎年のワクチン; an annual vaccine; 
毎年のデータ; annual data; 
毎年のたのしみ; a yearly treat
Where does Yamada go for her trip every year?|山田さんは、毎年どこにりょ行に行きますか？
That singer hints at retiring every year, so he must be saying it again this time just to get people to react.|あのか手は毎年引たいを口にしているので、きっと今回もただのつりでしょう。
I’ve built a new door for the Johnson family every year for the past decade. Why don’t they just stop letting the troll use it?|
  私は、ジョンソンさん一家のために、10年間毎年新しい扉を建てている。どうしてジョンソンさんたちはトロールに扉を使わせないようにしないのだろうか。

米 / Rice / こめ
米を〜; 
米をもらう; to get rice;
米をたべる; to eat rice; 
米を作る; to make rice
〜米; 
おいしい米; delicious rice;
うまい米; yummy rice;
いい米; good rice
I forgot to buy rice.|米をかうのをわすれてしまいました。
I heard that the weight of 100 million yen is about 10kg, so I tried to imagine what it would be like to hold 100 million yen while holding a bag of 10kg rice.
  １おく円のおもさはやく１０キロときいたので、１０キロのお米のふくろをだきしめながら、１おく円をもっているところをそうぞうしてみた。
My favorite breakfast consists of uncooked rice and miso soup.|私の一番好きな朝ごはんは、生米と味噌汁です。

羽 / Feathers, Feather, Wing, Wings / はね
羽が〜; 
羽がはえる; feathers grow, wings grow;
羽がある; to have wings;
羽がうつくしい; beautiful wings
羽を〜; 
羽をつける; to attach wings, to attach feathers; 
羽をのばす; to stretch one's wings, to relax; 
羽を広げる; to spread one's wings
The small bird flapped its wings.|小とりは、羽をパタパタうごかしました。
I have eaten deep-fried chicken wings before, but I've never eaten deep-fried butterfly wings.|手羽先のからあげはたべたことがあるけど、ちょうちょうの羽のからあげはたべたことがありません。
"Do you know what kind of bird this feather is from?" he asked me, holding out some of his own nose hair.|「この羽、どの鳥の羽か分かるかな？」と彼は自分の鼻毛を持ちながら聞いてきた。

考える / To Think About, To Consider, To Give Thought / かんがえる
〜を考える; 
バランスを考える; to think about balance; 
そんなことを考える; to think about that sort of thing;
人生を考える; to think about life
〜に考える; 
大切に考える; to think carefully;
いっしょに考える; to think together; 
まじめに考える; to think seriously
考える〜; 
考えること; thinking;
考えるとき; when one thinks about something; 
考える人; people who think
〜と考える; 
人と考える; to think with other people;
チャンスと考える; to consider something an opportunity; 
同じと考える; to think the same way
Please let me think about it a little.|少し考えさせてください。
Don't think. Just feel!|考えるな！かんじろ！
My daughter thinks that the movie Titanic would have been better if the ship never sank and everyone went to Disneyland instead.
  私の娘は、もしタイタニック号が沈まなければ、みんなその代わりにディズニーランドに行くことができて、もっといい映画になったのにと考える。

肉 / Meat / にく
肉の〜; 
肉のかたまり; a lump of meat;
肉のうまみ; the deliciousness of meat; 
肉の色; the color of meat
〜の肉; 
牛の肉; beef;
おなかの肉; belly flab; 
スーパーの肉; meat from the supermarket
肉〜; 
肉エキス; meat extract; 
肉うどん; udon noodles with meat;
肉そば; soba noodles with meat
〜肉; 
ロース肉; a loin of meat;
ヒレ肉; a fillet of meat;
ラム肉; lamb meat
肉を〜; 
肉を切る; to cut meat;
肉を出す; to serve meat; 
肉をたべる; to eat meat
肉が〜; 
肉がおちる; to lose flab, to slim down; 
肉がつく; to gain flab, to get chubby; 
肉がはみ出す; the meat sticks out, the flab sticks out
On Wednesday, meat is cheap.|水よう日は、肉がやすいです。
Among beef, pork, and chicken, which meat do you like the best?|牛肉とぶた肉ととり肉の中ではどれが一ばんすきですか。
Meat is the most important component between two slices of bread.|お肉は、二枚の食パンに挟まれる、もっとも重要な具材です。

牛肉 / Beef / ぎゅうにく
牛肉の〜; 
牛肉のステーキ; beef steak;
牛肉のうまみ; the deliciousness of beef; 
牛肉のパック; packs of beef
牛肉〜; 
牛肉メニュー; the beef menu; 
牛肉コロッケ; beef croquettes; 
牛肉ミンチ; minced beef
牛肉を〜; 
牛肉を切る; to cut beef; 
牛肉をもらう; to receive some beef, to take beef; 
牛肉をたべる; to eat beef
〜牛肉;
スライスした牛肉; sliced beef; 
ブランド牛肉; name-brand beef, high quality beef;
おいしい牛肉; delicious beef
〜の牛肉;
スーパーの牛肉; supermarket beef; 
今回の牛肉; the beef this time; 
生の牛肉; raw beef
I got off the train at a station near my home and went to the grocery store to buy beef.|いえのちかくのえきででんしゃをおりて、スーパーに牛肉をかいに行きました。
Last year, the import of UK beef was resumed.|去年、えいこくさん牛肉のゆ入がさいかいされました。
The beef is so undercooked. I may have a kitchen nightmare tonight because of this.|牛肉はありえないくらい生焼けだ。この牛肉のせいで今夜はキッチンの悪夢を見ることになりそうだ。

皮肉 / Irony, Sarcasm, Ironic, Sarcastic / ひにく
皮肉な〜;
皮肉なもの; something ironic;
皮肉なこと; something ironic; 
皮肉な見方; a cynical way of looking at something
皮肉〜; 
皮肉っぽい; kind of sarcastic; 
皮肉だ; it's sarcastic;
皮肉たっぷり; full of sarcasm
皮肉を〜; 
皮肉を言う; to be sarcastic; 
皮肉をぶつける; to lash out at someone with sarcasm
皮肉に〜; 
皮肉になる; to become cynical; 
皮肉にきこえる; to sound sarcastic
That’s really ironic, isn’t it?|まったく皮肉なものですね。
That butcher is a such a sarcastic person.|あの肉やさんは、大した皮肉やだよ。
Not one thing in the song "Ironic" is a proper example of irony.|「Ironic」という曲の中に、うまい皮肉はひとつも見当たらなかった。

自分 / Oneself, Myself, Self / じぶん
自分が〜; 
自分がやる; to do something by oneself; 
自分が作る; to make something on one's own;
自分がする; to do something by oneself
自分の〜; 
自分の考え; one's thoughts;
自分の心; one's mind; 
自分の人生; one's own life
自分〜; 
自分たち; ourselves; 
自分一人; only oneself; 
自分用; for my own use
自分で〜;
自分で作る; can make something oneself;
自分でできる; can do something oneself;
自分で考える; to think for oneself
自分を〜; 
自分を大切にする; to take care of oneself; 
自分をせめる; to blame oneself; 
自分をかえる; to change oneself
I finished the homework perfectly all by myself.|ちゃんと自分でしゅくだいをしました。
That's the color you can only choose if you are confident with yourself, isn't it?|自分に自しんがないとえらべない色だよね。
Of course I talk to myself. Sometimes I need expert advice.|もちろん私は自分と話しますよ。だって、時には専門家の意見が必要ですもの。

自立 / Independence, Self Reliance, Independent / じりつ
自立を〜;
自立をめざす; to aim for self-reliance; 
自立をサポートする; to support self-reliance; 
自立を考える; to think about independence
〜の自立; 
本当の自立; real independence;
ホームレスの自立; independence for the homeless;
人々の自立; people's independence
自立の〜; 
自立のサポート; support for independence;
自立のプロセス; a process for independence
My son is finally starting to be self reliant.|むすこもようやく自立しはじめました。
I'm thinking of being on my own, if I recover from autonomic dysfunction.|自立しんけいしっちょうしょうがなおったら、自立しようとおもっています。
Share this if you are a strong, independent Japanese woman who doesn’t need a man.|もしあなたが強くて自立した日本人女性で、男なんて必要ないというなら、これをシェアしてください。

色 / Color / いろ
〜色; 
オレンジ色; orange color; 
クリーム色; cream color; 
同じ色; the same color
色が〜;
色がかわる; the color changes;
色がつく; color is added; 
色がちがう; the color is different
色の〜; 
色のバリエーション; color variation; 
色のバランス; color balance; 
色のコントラスト; color contrast
〜の色; 
花の色; the color of flowers;
目の色; eye color;
他の色; other colors
色を〜; 
色をつける; to add color;
色をかえる; to change the color;
色をぬる; to paint
色〜; 
色づかい; use of color;
色ちがい; different colors; 
色あざやか; vivid colors
What color do you like?|何色がすきですか。
Bell peppers turn from green to red when they ripen.|ピーマンはうれるとみどり色から赤色になります。
I’m color blind, so my reds appear orange and my blues appear black.|僕は色盲なので、赤色はオレンジ色に、青色は黒色のように見えます。

色々 / Various / いろいろ
色々な〜; 
色々なタイプ; various types;
色々なジャンル; various genres; 
色々な人; various people
I’ve read various types of novels.|色々な小せつをよみました。
After thinking about various things, I've decided to hold a takoyaki party on Sunday.|色々考えたけっか、日よう日にたこやきパーティーをすることにしました。
There are various species of trolls that live under my bed.|私のベッドの下に住んでいるトロールには色々な種類がいます。

水色 / Sky Blue, Light Blue, Aqua Blue, Sky Blue Color, Light Blue Color, Aqua Blue Color / みずいろ
水色に〜; 
水色になる; to become light blue;
水色にする; to make light blue, to go with light blue;
水色に見える; to look light blue
水色の〜; 
水色のワンピース; a light blue dress; 
水色の花; light blue flowers;
水色の空; a light blue sky
I want that light blue bag.|あの水色のバッグがほしいんですが。
Tofugu T-shirt is breezy sky blue.|トーフグのTシャツは、さわやかな水色です。
Why is the sky light blue today?|どうして今日の空は水色なんだろう？

行く / To Go / いく
〜に行く;
トイレに行く; to go to the bathroom; 
あそびに行く; to go play; 
日本に行く; to go to Japan
〜で行く; 
一人で行く; to go alone; 
バスで行く; to go by bus;
車で行く; to go by car
〜へ行く; 
イギリスへ行く; to go to the U.K.;
大学へ行く; to go to university; 
レストランへ行く; to go to a restaurant
I'm about to go shopping.|今から、かいものに行きます。
Something came up, so I'm not able to make it.|ようじができて、行けなくなってしまいました。
I wouldn’t want to go to Mars because they don’t have Taco Bell there.|タコベルが無いので火星には行きたくない。

行き / Train Direction, Bound For / ゆき, いき
行きの〜; 
行きのフライト; an outbound flight; 
行きのバス; the bus to go somewhere;
行きのフェリー; an outbound ferry
〜行き;
ニューヨーク行き; bound for New York;
ディズニーランド行き; bound for Disneyland; 
羽田行き; bound for Haneda
One shinkansen ticket for Shin-Osaka, please.|しん大さか行きのしんかんせんのきっぷをください。
I'm thinking of walking both ways.|行きもかえりもあるくつもりです。
This train is bound for Tofugu Office Station.|この電車は、トーフグオフィス行きです。

西 / West / にし
西に〜;
西にある; to be located to the west; 
西に行く; to go west; 
西にすすむ; to proceed west
西へ〜; 
西へすすむ; to proceed west;
西へ走る; to run west; 
西へ行く; to go west
西の〜;
西の方; westward; 
西の空; the western sky;
西のはし; the western edge
The building on the west side of the hospital is my apartment.|びょういんの西のたてものがわたしのアパートです。
Darin is heading west.|ダリンは、西にむかっています。
Meanwhile in West Portland, the Crabigator was crossing the road.|その頃、西ポートランドでは、鰐蟹がその道を渡っていた。

北西 / Northwest / ほくせい
北西へ〜; 
北西へ行く; to go northwest; 
北西へすすむ; to proceed northwest; 
北西へむかう; to head northwest
北西の〜; 
北西の空; the northwestern sky;
北西の山; a northwestern mountain;
北西の角; Northwest corner
北西に〜; 
北西にある; to be located to the northwest;
北西に見える; to be visible in the northwest; 
北西に行く; to go northwest
The airplane is heading northwest.|ひこうきは、北西にむかっています。
If you drive about an hour and a half northwest from Portland, you will arrive at a city called Seaside.|ポートランドから車で一じかん半ほど北西の方にいくと、シーサイドというまちにつきます。
I lost my pantyhose somewhere northwest of here.|ここから北西の方角のどこかに、パンストを落とした。

何千 / Thousands, Several Thousands, How Many Thousands / なんぜん
何千 + counter;
何千台; several thousand vehicles, several thousand machines; 
何千人; several thousand people;
何千回; several thousand times
I’ve practiced thousands of times.|何千回も、れんしゅうしました。
Suddenly, thousands of bacon strips dropped from sky.|とつぜん、何千ものベーコンがそらからふってきた。
Victims of the titan attack numbered in the thousands.|巨人攻撃の被害者は、何千人にものぼった。
How many thousand yen?|何千円ですか？

何 / What / なに, なん
何が〜; 
何がほしい; What do you want?; 
何がおいしい; What tastes good?;
何がある; What is there?
What would you say?|何と言いますか。
Who do you think you are?|あなた、何さまのつもりですか。
What was the name of that drink we had at the hotel in Thailand?|僕達がタイのホテルで飲んだ飲み物の名前は何？

何人 / How Many People / なんにん
何人〜; 
何人くらい; roughly how many people;
何人分; for how many people;
何人か; several people
何人も〜; 
何人も来る; a lot of people come;
何人も見る; to see many people; 
何人もいる; there are many people
How many people participated in the party?|そのパーティーには、何人の人がさんかしましたか。
How many people have been killed by the killer fish in this pond?|今までこの池で何人の人々がさつ人ぎょにころされましたか。
How many people will be joining us for dinner?|夕食にはいったい何人の人がやって来るんですか？

何月 / What Month, Which Month / なんがつ
何月〜; 
何月何日; What month and what day?;
何月まで; until what month; 
何月くらい; around what month
What month do you start school?|学こうは何月にはじまりますか。
When did it happen? What year, what month, what day, what time, what second was it? How many times did Earth spin when it happened?|それって何年何月何日何びょう、ちきゅうが何回回ったとき？
What month were you born in, Ms. Tanaka?|田中さんは何月生まれですか？

何日 / How Many Days, What Day, Which Day / なんにち
〜何日; 
何月何日; What month and what day?;
今日何日; What's the date today?;
一月何日; What day in January?
How many days will you take off from your part-time job?|アルバイト、何日休むんですか。
What day's good for you?|何日がいい？
How many days were you stuck in the elevator?|エレベーターから何日出られなかったんですか。

何年 / What Year, How Many Years / なんねん
何年の〜;
何年のはなし; What year is the story from?; 
何年のこと; What year was that?; 
何年のニュース; What year is the news from?
What year were you born?|何年生まれですか。
What year did your kid enter college?|おたくのお子さんは、何年に大学に入りましたか。
How many years did the American Civil War last?|アメリカの南北戦争は、何年間続いたんですか？

何回 / How Many Times / なんかい
何回〜; 
何回くらい; roughly how many times; 
何回目; how many times; 
何回まで; up to how many times
Including this time, how many times have you come to Japan?|日本へ来るのは、今回で何回目ですか。
This video is so funny that I have to watch it a bunch of times.|このビデオ、おもしろすぎて何回も見てしまうわ。
How many times do we have to have this conversation until it finally sinks in? I am not Luke Skywalker. I played him in a movie. My name is Mark. I live in Chicago.
  事をはっきりさせるまでに、いったい何回この会話を繰り返さないといけねえんだよ？だから俺はリューク・スカイウォーカーじゃねえんだよ。映画でその役を演じただけだっつーの。俺の名前はマークだ。シカゴに住んでる。

学ぶ / To Learn, To Study In Depth, To Study / まなぶ
〜を学ぶ; 
マナーを学ぶ; to learn manners; 
ルールを学ぶ; to learn the rules;
テクニックを学ぶ; to learn a technique
〜で学ぶ; 
本で学ぶ; to learn from books; 
大学で学ぶ; to learn at university; 
自分で学ぶ; to learn by oneself
I’m learning Japanese through self-study.|わたしは、どく学で日本ごを学んでいます。
Why don't you learn how to make weird faces and poses with Tofugu, instead of studying Japanese?|日本ごをべんきょうするのはやめて、トーフグといっしょにへんがおとへんなポーズを学びませんか？
Learning is important, but perhaps what’s more important is how you learn.|学ぶことは大切だけど、おそらくもっと大切なのはどのように学ぶかということじゃないだろうか。

学生 / Student / がくせい
学生の〜; 
学生のみなさん; dear students, to all students;
学生のニーズ; students' needs; 
学生の声; students' voices
学生が〜; 
学生がする; the students do; 
学生がいる; there are students; 
学生が学ぶ; the students learn
学生〜;
学生たち; students; 
学生さん; a student, students; 
学生ビザ; a student visa
Which parts will students study at home today?|学生は今日、うちでどこをべんきょうしますか。
Do you have student discount?|学生わり引ってありますか？
"We are all students of life," my dad said while farting.|「我々はみな人生の学生だ。」と言いながら、父はおならをした。

学年 / School Grade, Grade In School, School Year, Year In School / がくねん
学年の〜; 
学年のおわり; the end of the school year; 
学年の子; the children in a grade; 
学年の先生; the teacher of a grade
〜の学年; 
他の学年; other grades;
それぞれの学年; each grade; 
上の学年; upper grades
He is in the same year as my older brother.|かれは、兄と同じ学年です。
Tofugu not only has fans in early elementary school, but also elderly fans over 100 years old.|トーフグには、小学こうてい学年のファンもいれば、１００才をこえるファンもいる。
One third of the third grade threw up after school lunch.|あの給食の後、三年生の学年の三分の一が吐いた。

入学 / School Admission, University Admission, Entry Into School, Enrollment / にゅうがく
入学の〜; 
入学のタイミング; timing of enrollment;
入学のきっかけ; the reason for enrolling;
入学のチャンス; the chance to enroll
ご入学〜; 
ご入学おめでとう; congrats on your university admission;
ご入学いただけます; you can now enroll; 
ご入学おめでとうございます; congratulations on your university admission
入学を〜; 
入学をする; to enroll;
入学をすすめる; to recommend enrollment;
入学を考える; to think about enrollment
Here is a congratulatory present for getting into school.|これは、入学のおいわいのプレゼントです。
My father forgot to pay the enrollment fee.|父が入学金をはらうのをわすれてしまったんです。
Tom thought he got into Oxford, but apparently the acceptance letter was an April Fool’s joke his parents made.
  トムはオックスフォード大学に入学できたと思っていたんだけど、どうもその合格証明書はトムの両親がエイプリルフールのジョークとして作ったものだったようだぜ。

工学 / Someone with the study of industry is someone who creates things. That would be the study of engineering. / こうがく
工学〜; 
工学センター; center for engineering;
工学コース; an engineering course; 
工学システム; engineering systems
工学の〜; 
工学の先生; an engineering teacher; 
工学の父; the father of engineering; 
工学の本; engineering books
工学を〜; 
工学を用いる; to utilize engineering; 
工学を学ぶ; to study engineering; 
工学をかじる; to learn a bit about engineering
〜工学; 
ロボット工学; robotics; 
システム工学; systems engineering;
ソフトウェア工学; software engineering
My specialization is engineering.|わたしのせんもんは、工学です。
The engineering class at Harvard University was excessively difficult.|ハーバード大学の工学のクラスは目玉がとび出るほどむずかしかった。
I’d be perfect for this job, but I need an engineering degree in order to apply.|僕はこの仕事にぴったりだと思うんだけど、応募するには工学の学位がいるんだ。

大学 / University, College, Uni / だいがく
大学の〜; 
大学の先生; university teachers; 
大学のキャンパス; a university campus; 
大学の学生; university students
大学で〜; 
大学で学ぶ; to study at university; 
大学でする; to do in college; 
大学でできる; can do in college
大学に〜; 
大学に入学する; to enter university;
大学に行く; to go to college; 
大学に入る; to enter university
There are a lot of Chinese people in my university.|わたしの大学には、中ごく人がたくさんいます。
What are the main differences between American universities and Japanese universities?|アメリカの大学と日本の大学の主なちがいはなんですか。
I studied anatomy in college, but I never opened a textbook.|大学で解剖学を勉強したが、教科書は一度も開かなかった。

休学 / Absent From School, Absence From School, School Absence, Leave Of Absence / きゅうがく
休学を〜; 
休学をする; to take a leave of absence from school; 
休学をえらぶ; to choose a leave of absence from school; 
休学を考える; to consider a leave of absence from school
I’m taking a one year leave of absence from university.|大学を一年かん休学していたんです。
When Viet was a college student, he took a year of leave from school and went on a journey of self discovery.|ビエトは大学のとき、学こうを一年かん休学してじ分さがしのたびに出た。
"Do you know why Kelly has been absent from school for the past three weeks?" "Yes, apparently she has a really serious case of pink eye."
  「どうしてケリーが三週間も休学しているか知ってる？」「知ってるよ。ケリーは結膜炎がひどいらしいよ。」

林 / Forest, Grove / はやし
〜の林; 
スギの林; a cedar forest;
ブナの林; a beech forest; 
ヒノキの林; a Japanese cypress forest
林を〜; 
林をぬける; to go through a forest, to finally leave a forest; 
林をあるく; to walk through a forest; 
林を出る; to leave a forest
林に〜;
林になる; to become a forest; 
林に行く; to go to a forest; 
林に入る; to enter a forest
Every morning I walk in the forest.|毎あさ、林をさんぽしています。
I happened to catch Mrs. Hayashi speed walking in the woods.|林先生が早足で林をあるいているのを見ちゃった。
I couldn’t wait until I got to the house, so I left my wet socks in the woods.|家に帰るまで待てずに、林の中に濡れた靴下を残した。

空気 / Air, Atmosphere / くうき
〜の空気; 
山の空気; mountain air;
外の空気; fresh air; 
タイヤの空気; the air in a tire
空気が〜; 
空気がながれる; air flows; 
空気が入る; air enters; 
空気がもれる; air leaks out
空気を〜;
空気を入れる; to let air in, to put air into; 
空気を出す; to let air out; 
空気をよむ; to sense the mood, to read the situation
Please just take the hint.|ちょっとは空気をよんでください。
The morning winter air is cold.|冬のあさの空気はつめたい。
The monkey in the pirate’s space ship will be reentering the atmosphere in 3 hours. He can’t wait to draw as much air into his lungs as possible.
  海賊の宇宙船に乗っている猿は、三時間後に大気圏に突入する予定だ。猿は、肺に好きなだけ空気を吸い込むことが待ちきれない。

空 / Sky / そら
空を〜;
空をとぶ; to fly in the sky; 
空を見る; to look at the sky; 
空を見上げる; to look up at the sky
〜の空;
北の空; the sky to the north; 
西の空; the sky to the west; 
冬の空; a winter sky
空に〜; 
空にかがやく; to glow in the sky;
空にうかぶ; to appear in the sky, to float in the sky;
空に見える; to be visible in the sky
There is a beautiful rainbow in the sky.|空にきれいなにじがかかっている。
They say that women's minds and the autumn skies change quickly, but men's minds change quickly too.|女心とあきの空といいますが、男心だってかわりやすいんですよ。
I hope the sky tonight is clear enough for us to see the famous scene from the movie E.T.|今夜映画E.T.の有名なシーンがちゃんと見れるくらい、空が晴れ渡っているといいんだが。

金 / Gold / きん
金を〜; 
金を見せる; to show someone gold;
金をもらう; to receive gold;
金をもつ; to own gold, to hold gold
金の〜; 
金のかたまり; a lump of gold; 
金の糸; gold thread; 
金のタマゴ; a golden egg, talented young people
I gave her a gold necklace.|金のネックレスをプレゼントしました
If I had money, I would like to buy the gold Rolex that Kim Jong-un has.|お金があったら、金正ウンとおそろいの、金のロレックスをかいたいとおもっています。
This yarn will turn into gold in 24 hours and I’ll give you some as a Christmas present, so you should appreciate me more.|この毛糸は24時間後に金に変わるんだけど、クリスマスプレゼントとして少しあんたにあげるよ。感謝しろよな。

金玉 / Testicles / きんたま
〜の金玉; 
タヌキの金玉; a raccoon dog's testicles; 
自分の金玉; one's own testicles
My testicles sting.|金玉がヒリヒリするんです。
I'm sure that my testicles are working twice as hard as the other mens'.|おれの金玉はぜったい他の男のばいはたらいてるとおもうぜ。
The surgery to make testicles gold in color is fully booked for the next six months.|金玉を金色にする手術は、六ヶ月先まで予約がいっぱいです。

お金 / Money / おかね
お金の〜; 
お金のながれ; the flow of money;
お金のトラブル; money troubles; 
お金の出し入れ; deposits and withdrawals of money
お金を〜; 
お金を出す; to pay; 
お金をもらう; to receive money;
お金をかける; to spend money
お金が〜; 
お金がかかる; to cost money;
お金がある; to have money, to be rich;
お金が入る; to receive money
This photo is more important than money.|この写しんは、お金よりも大切です。
If you're careless with money, it's going to bite you in the butt.|お金をなめているとバチが当たるよ！
You should be aware that this machine takes your money and gives you nothing in return.|この機械は、お金を取りあげるけどなんの見返りもくれないから、気をつけた方がいいよ。

雨 / Rain / あめ
雨に〜; 
雨に打たれる; to be pelted with rain;
雨にぬれる; to get wet in the rain;
雨に当たる; to be exposed to the rain
雨〜; 
雨女; a woman who brings the rain with her;
雨マーク; the symbol for rain (on a weather forecast);
雨男; a man who brings the rain with him
雨の〜; 
雨の休日; a rainy holiday; 
雨の音; the sound of rain; 
雨の天気; rainy weather
雨が〜; 
雨がふり出す; the rain starts to fall; 
雨が上がる; the rain stops; 
雨がふる; the rain falls
It hasn’t rained yet.|雨はまだふっていません。
Unfortunately, I was born prince of a country that has rain all year long.|一年中雨がふるくにの王子として生まれたことをくいています。
I like the smell of rain and you smell like it. That’s why I love you.|私は雨の臭いが好きで、あなたはそんな臭いがする。だからあなたのことが大好きなの。

青い / Blue, Unripe / あおい
青い〜; 
青い空; blue sky; 
青い光; blue light;
青い色; a blue color
〜が青い; 
空が青い; the sky is blue;
色が青い; the color blue;
水が青い; water is blue
There is a blue bird.|青いとりがいます。
That apple hasn't ripened enough yet, has it?|そのリンゴ、まだ青いんじゃないの。
Wow, this blue paint smells exactly like the red paint.|うわっ、この青いペンキ、あの赤いペンキと全く同じ臭いがする。

青年 / Youth, Young Man / せいねん
青年の〜; 
青年の手; the hands of a young man; 
青年のすがた; the figure of a young man;
青年の心; the heart of a young man
青年が〜; 
青年が来る; a young man comes; 
青年がいる; there's a young man; 
青年が言う; a young man says
〜の青年; 
多くの青年; many youths; 
村の青年; a youth in the village;
一人の青年; one young man
He was a very invigorating young man.|とてもさわやかな青年でした。
That young man is a member of a motorcycle gang.|その青年は、ぼう走ぞくの一いんです。
Why do youths in Japan try to hide their nasty smiles when they’re up to something?|どうして日本の青年は、下心があっていやらしい笑みを浮かべていることを隠そうとするのか？

草 / Grass / くさ
草の〜;
草のかおり; the smell of grass;
草のにおい; the smell of grass
草が〜; 
草がはえる; the grass grows;
草がなくなる; the grass disappears;
草がのびる; the grass gets longer
草を〜; 
草をたべる; to eat grass; 
草をむしる; to weed the grass
You have to cut the grass soon.|そろそろ草をからなくてはなりません。
I don't have money, so I live by eating grass.|お金がないから草をたべて生きています。
Why does my neighbor have such green grass? And why is his house so big?|どうして隣の人の草はあんなに青いんだろう。どうして彼の家はあんなに大きいんだろう。

音 / Sound, Noise / おと
音を〜;
音を出す; to make a sound;
音を立てる; to make noise;
音をならす; to make a sound
音が〜; 
音が出る; a sound comes out; 
音がする; it makes a sound; 
音がきこえる; a sound can be heard
〜の音; 
水の音; the sound of water; 
車の音; the sound of a car; 
ピアノの音; the sound of a piano
There was a loud noise upstairs.|二かいから、大きな音がしました。
I can hear the sounds of a very good recorder coming from next door.|となりのいえから、すごく上手なリコーダーの音が聞こえてきます。
Have you ever heard the sound that a goldfish makes when it cries?|金魚が泣いている音を聞いたことはある？

作る / To Make, To Build, To Create / つくる
〜を作る; 
ホームページを作る; to make a website;
ものを作る; to create things; 
システムを作る; to make a system
〜で作る; 
手で作る; to make something by hand; 
日本で作る; to make something in Japan; 
自分で作る; to make something oneself
〜に作る; 
人のために作る; to make something for others; 
そこに作る; to make something there; 
いっしょに作る; to make something together

体 / Body / からだ
体を〜;
体をあたためる; to warm oneself up; 
体を見る; to look at the body; 
体をうごかす; to move one's body
When I take a bath, I wash my body first.|おふろに入ると、はじめに体をあらいます。
Jamal, why is your body so flexible?|ジャマルって何でそんなに体がやわらかいの？
My entire body is so itchy for some reason.|なぜだか、体中がかゆいんだ

体力 / Physical Strength, Physical Power, Stamina, Endurance / たいりょく
体力が〜;
体力がない; to have no physical strength;
体力がつく; to gain physical strength;
体力がある; to have physical strength
体力〜; 
体力テスト; physical fitness test;
体力づくり; building up physical strength; 
体力アップ; improving physical strength
体力を〜; 
体力をキープする; to maintain one's physical strength; 
体力をつかう; to consume energy; 
体力をつける; to build up one's physical strength
I have practically no physical strength.|わたしは体力があまりありません。
Koichi doesn't have stamina to do 80 push-ups.|コウイチには、うで立てふせを八十回する体力はありません。
The fever weakened his body, but he was still strong enough to drink water by himself.|その熱が彼の体力を弱めたが、まだ自分で水を飲む体力は残っていた。

体内 / Internal, Within The Body, Inside The Body / たいない
体内に〜;
体内にいる; to be inside the body (viruses, bacteria); 
体内にある; to be inside the body; 
体内に入る; to enter the body
体内の〜; 
体内の水分; water in the body;
体内のエネルギー; energy inside the body; 
体内のアルコール; alcohol in the body
Do you know what function blood has within the body?|ちが、体内でどんなはたらきをしているのかしっていますか。
The kabocha squash is high in beta-carotene and it's converted into vitamin A in the body.|カボチャに多くふくまれるβカロテンは体内でビタミンAにかわります。
Blood circulates through the body regardless of whether it’s the body of a human or the body of a vampire.|人間の体か吸血鬼の体かにかかわらず、血液は体内を循環する。

作文 / Composition, Writing, Essay / さくぶん
作文〜; 
作文コンクール; an essay writing contest; 
作文トレーニング; training in essay writing; 
作文コンテスト; an essay writing contest
作文の〜; 
作文のテスト; a writing test; 
作文のテーマ; subject of a composition; 
作文のトレーニング; training in essay writing
作文を〜; 
作文をよむ; to read a composition; 
作文を作る; to compose a composition;
作文をかく; to write a composition
Please hand this essay in to professor Nakagawa.|この作文を、中川先生にわたしてください。
I got 100 percent on the essay exam.|作文のテストで百てんをもらいました。
My essays are still full of mistakes.|僕の作文は、まだ間違いだらけです。

工作 / Handicraft, Crafts, Maneuvering / こうさく
〜工作; 
テロ工作; terrorist operations; 
スパイ工作; espionage activities; 
アリバイ工作; concocting an alibi​
工作〜;
工作キット; craft kits; 
工作コーナー; the craft section; 
工作コンクール; a craft contest
工作を〜; 
工作をする; to do handicrafts; 
工作を作る; to make handicrafts; 
工作をたのしむ; to enjoy handicrafts
Handicraft is not my strong point.|工作はとくいではありません。
I failed to concoct a reasonable alibi.|アリバイ工作にしっぱいした。
When I was in elementary school, I made a machine that makes ice cream for my school craft project over summer break.|私は小学生の頃、夏休みの自由工作の宿題で、アイスクリームを作る機械を作った。

大作 / An Epic, Epic, Epic Saga, Masterpiece, Masterwork, Magnum Opus / たいさく
大作を〜; 
大作を作る; to create a masterpiece; 
大作を見る; to watch a great work, to see a masterpiece; 
大作をかく; to write a masterpiece, to draw a masterpiece
This movie is a Hitchcock epic.|このえいがは、ヒッチコックの大作だ。
The title of the most epic film this century is said to be, "A Life of Fugu."|今世き一ばんの大作ともいわれているえいがのタイトルは「フグの一生」です。
Every score that Beethoven wrote was a masterpiece.|ベートーベンが作曲した曲は、どれも大作だった。

図 / Diagram / ず
〜の図; 
下の図; the diagram below; 
右の図; the diagram on the right; 
上の図; the diagram above
図を〜; 
図をクリックする; to click on a diagram; 
図をかく; to draw a diagram;
図を見る; to look at a diagram
Please look at the diagram below.|下の図を見てください。
If you click it, an enlarged view will appear.|クリックすると、かく大図がひょうじされます。
Your brother drew a simple diagram of the relationship between him and his girlfriend.|あなたのお兄さんは、自分と彼女の関係を簡単な図に表しました。

声 / Voice / こえ
声を〜; 
声を出す; to speak up, to voice; 
声を上げる; to raise one's voice;
声をかける; to call out to someone, to talk to someone
声が〜; 
声がきこえる; to hear a voice;
声が出る; to let out a cry;
声が大きい; a loud voice
〜の声; 
生の声; a live voice, real opinions; 
自分の声; my voice; 
ユーザーの声; a user's voice
Hashimoto’s voice is very low.|はし本さんの声は、とてもひくいです。
My friend's voice and her kid's voice are very alike.|友人の声とその子どもの声がそっくりだ。
Your voice sounds awful!|あんたの声、ひどいな！

大声 / Large Voice, Loud Voice, Big Voice / おおごえ
大声で〜; 
大声でどなる; to yell loudly; 
大声でさけぶ; to shout out loud; 
大声で言う; to say out loud
大声を〜;
大声を上げる; to raise one's voice; 
大声を出す; to speak loudly;
大声をはりあげる; to shout at the top of one's lungs
Please don’t use such a loud voice.|そんな大声を出さないでください。
I couldn't help laughing out loud.|おもわず大声を出してわらってしまった。
Christina has a loud voice, and unfortunately, she’s not afraid to use it.|クリスティーナは大声の持ち主で、残念なことにそれを使うのを全くはばからない。

弟 / Younger Brother, Little Brother / おとうと
弟の〜; 
弟の友人; my younger brother's friend;
弟のすがた; the figure of a younger brother; 
弟のうち; my younger brother's house
弟〜;
弟さん; your younger brother; 
弟たち; younger brothers; 
弟くん; your little brother
弟が〜;
弟がいる; to have a little brother;
弟が生まれる; a younger brother is born;
弟がする; a younger brother does
My little brother doesn’t watch TV.|わたしの弟は、テレビを見ない。
That young man with blue hair is my younger brother.|その青いかみの青年はぼくの弟です。
I ended up going to the hospital last night because my younger brother threw a pool ball at my head.|弟がビリヤードのボールを頭に投げつけてきたので、昨夜僕は病院に行くはめになった。

兄弟 / Brothers, Siblings / きょうだい
兄弟が〜; 
兄弟がする; a sibling does something; 
兄弟ができる; to gain a sibling; 
兄弟がいる; to have siblings
兄弟〜;
兄弟たち; brothers, siblings; 
兄弟げんか; a quarrel between siblings; 
兄弟どうし; between brothers, between siblings
〜兄弟;
二人兄弟; two siblings; 
男兄弟; male siblings;
ライト兄弟; the Wright brothers
〜の兄弟; 
他の兄弟; other siblings; 
母の兄弟; my mother's siblings; 
自分の兄弟; one's own siblings
I have two siblings.|わたしには、兄弟が二人います。
Were Mario and Luigi brothers!?|マリオとルイージって兄弟だったの！？
I like those brothers, but I hate their stuffed animals.|あの兄弟は好きだけど、あいつらのもっているぬいぐるみは好きじゃない。

来る / To Come / くる
〜来る; 
はじめて来る; to come for the first time; 
もう来る; to be on one's way; 
すぐ来る; to come quickly
〜が来る; 
林さんが来る; Mr. Hayashi is coming;
メールが来る; an email comes in;
車が来る; a car is coming
〜から来る;
うしろから来る; to come from behind;
どこから来る; to come from where; 
アフリカから来る; to come from Africa
〜に来る; 
オーストラリアに来る; to come to Australia; 
会社に来る; to come to the office; 
あそびに来る; to come to play
I came from America.|アメリカから来ました。
She will come. I'm sure she will come.|来る、きっと来る。
Never come back!|二度と戻って来るんじゃねーぞ！

来月 / Next Month / らいげつ
来月に〜; 
来月にする; to do next month;
来月になる; to be next month; 
来月に行く; to go next month
来月〜; 
来月三才; three years old next month; 
来月はじめ; the beginning of next month; 
来月五日; the fifth of next month
来月の〜; 
来月のあたま; the beginning of next month;
来月のレッスン; next month's lesson; 
来月のシフト; next month's shift
I am having a birthday party next month, so please come too, Kanae.来月たん生日会をするので、かなえさんも来てください。
What day next month is the day of the fireworks display?|花火大会の日は来月の何日でしたっけ？
Next month I’ll start scuba diving to find the glasses I lost at sea today.|今日海に落とした眼鏡を探すために、来月スキューバダイビングを始めることにしたよ。

来年 / Next Year / らいねん
来年〜; 
来年一月; January of next year; 
来年はじめ; the beginning of next year; 
来年十才; ten years old next year
来年の〜; 
来年の今ごろ; around this time next year; 
来年のカレンダー; next year's calendar;
来年の四月; April of next year
来年も〜; 
来年も来る; to come again next year;
来年もおねがいする; to request again next year;
来年もがんばる; to work hard next year too
来年は〜; 
来年はする; to do next year; 
来年は行く; to go next year; 
来年はやる; to do next year
I’m thinking of going back to America next year.|来年はアメリカにかえるつもりです。
I plan to continue being a NEET this year, next year, and the year after that.|今年も来年もさ来年もわたしはニートをつづけるつもりです。
Come at this time next year. I’ll have the biggest trailer in the trailer park.|来年の今頃に来てくれよ。ハウストレーラー用のキャンプ場で、一番でかいトレーラーが俺のだよ。

古来 / Ancient / こらい
古来より〜; 
古来より用いられる; to have been used since ancient times;
古来よりつづく; to have continued since ancient times;
古来よりある; to have been around since ancient times
古来から〜; 
古来からある; to have been around from ancient times;
古来から作られる; to have been made from ancient times;
古来からつづく; to have continued from ancient times
古来の〜; 
古来の色; colors from ancient times; 
古来のしきたり; ancient customs;
古来のことば; ancient words
The kappa is an ancient Japanese yokai.|カッパは、日本古来のようかいです。
In ancient times, this pond was known as "WaniKani Pond."|古来、この池は、「ワニカニの池」という名まえでしられていました。
The toilet is a wonderful invention that has been handed down since ancient times to the present-day.|トイレは、古来から現代へと受け継がれてきた素晴らしい発明品だ。

外来 / Imported, Outpatient, Foreign / がいらい
外来〜; 
外来クワガタ; a non-native stag beetle;
外来ロビー; an outpatient lobby;
外来カルテ; outpatient medical records
外来を〜; 
外来を作る; to create an outpatient clinic; 
外来をオープンする; to open an outpatient clinic; 
外来をはじめる; to start an outpatient clinic
Imported words are written with katakana.|外来の言ばは、カタカナでかきます。
I'm worried because the patient who would come to the outpatient clinic every day stopped coming.|毎日外来に来ていたかんじゃさんが、来なくなったので心ぱいしています。
I’m really interested in foreign things because they’re so different from what’s in Japan.|日本のものと全然違うので、私はとても外来品に興味がある。

〜年来 / For Some Years, For Years / ねんらい
〜年来の〜; 
十年来の大雨; the heaviest rainfall in ten years;
三十年来のつきあい; a thirty-year relationship;
二十年来の友人; a friend of twenty years
He’s been my friend for thirty years.|かれは、わたしの三十年来の友人です。
My long-cherished wish has finally come true.|わたしの年来のきぼうがついにかないました。
I’ve been trying to ask her out for a few years now, but she always says she will be busy washing her hair.|数年来彼女をデートに誘っているんだが、いつも「髪の毛を洗うのに忙しいから」と断られる。

社内 / Within The Company, In House, Inside The Company / しゃない
社内の〜; 
社内のシステム; in-house systems; 
社内のコミュニケーション; internal communication;
社内の人; people inside the company
社内で〜; 
社内でできる; can be done in-house; 
社内でする; to do something in-house; 
社内で作る; to create something in-house
社内に〜; 
社内にある; to be inside the company; 
社内に作る; to build something in the company;
社内にいる; to be inside the company
社内〜; 
社内ルール; company rules; 
社内システム; an in-house system;
社内ネットワーク; an in-house network
Next Sunday there will be an in-house basketball tournament.|つぎの日よう日に、社内のバスケットボール大会があります。
Hana left the company after she married a man who worked in the same company.|花さんは、社内けっこんをしてたいしょくしました。
Recently, there is a strange new trend in our company. Workers put names on food in the company fridge. Today, I had a rice ball named "Suzuki."
  最近、社内で変なことが流行っている。従業員が、会社の冷蔵庫の中の食べ物に名前をつけるのだ。今日は、俺は、「鈴木」と名付けられたオニギリを食べた。

入社 / Joining A Company, Entering A Company / にゅうしゃ
入社を〜; 
入社をする; to join a company; 
入社を考える; to think about joining a company;
入社をめざす; to aim to join a company
入社〜; 
入社したて; newly hired;
入社年; company entry date;
入社日; date of hire
〜入社; 
コネ入社; hired through connections;
バブル入社; hired in a bubble economy; 
キャリア入社; hired based on one's career
I joined this company in April.|この会社には、四月に入社しました。
Tofugu's employment exam is more difficult than Google's.|トーフグの入社しけんはグーグルの入社しけんよりもむずかしい。
As soon as I graduate from college, I hope to either join a big financial firm or be the president of the United States.|大学を卒業したらすぐに、大きな金融機関に入社するか、アメリカ合衆国の大統領になれたらいいなと思っている。

公社 / Government-Run Company, Government-Owned Company / こうしゃ
公社の〜; 
公社のあり方; the way government-run companies should be;
公社のとりくみ; what government-run companies do;
公社のホームページ; a government-run company's website
If I remember correctly, he works for a goverment-run company.|たしか、かれは公社ではたらいています
These passenger rail services were operated by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa.|このりょきゃくてつどうは、みなみアフリカりょきゃくてつどう公社がうんえいしています。
On April 1st, a goverment-owned company called Japan Post opened for business and it wasn’t an April Fools’ joke.|4月1日に国営公社である日本郵政公社が業務を開始したが、エイプリルフールのジョークではなかった。

本社 / Headquarters, HQ, Head Office, Company Headquarters / ほんしゃ
本社に〜;
本社にいる; to be at headquarters; 
本社に行く; to go to headquarters; 
本社にある; to be at headquarters
本社〜;
本社オフィス; head office; 
本社ビル; headquarters building;
本社スタッフ; headquarters staff
本社を〜; 
本社を出る; to leave headquarters;
本社をおく; to set up a headquarters; 
本社をもつ; to have a head office
本社の〜;
本社の人; people from headquarters; 
本社のサーバー; servers at head office; 
本社のスタッフ; staff at head office
The headquarters are in Tokyo.|本社はとうきょうにあります。
On Monday, I visited Tofugu HQ.|月よう日に、トーフグの本社におじゃましてきました。
It’s so quiet in the head office today, I can hear myself not working.|今日は本社がやけに静かだな。俺が働いていない音まで聞こえるぜ。

会社 / Company, Corporation, The Office / かいしゃ
会社〜;
会社づとめ; working for a company;
会社えらび; choosing a company;
会社そのもの; the company itself
会社に〜; 
会社に入る; to join a company; 
会社にいる; to be at a company; 
会社に行く; to go to a company
会社を〜; 
会社を休む; to be absent from the office;
会社を作る; to create a company; 
会社をやめる; to quit a company
会社の〜; 
会社のロゴ; a company logo; 
会社の人; people from the company; 
会社のビジョン; a company vision
How do you go to your company?|会社へは、何で行っていますか。
Tofugu is a company that deals with things like developing Japanese language learning materials and delivering Japanese-related information.
  トーフグは日本ごの学しゅうきょうざいをつくったり、日本についてのじょうほうをはいしんしたりする会社です。
The president of the company I work for looks like a hamster.|私が働く会社の社長は、ハムスターのような容貌をしている。

角 / Angle, Corner / かく, かど
〜の角; 
テーブルの角; the corner of a table; 
へやの角; the corner of the room; 
タンスの角; the corner of a wardrobe
角を〜; 
角をとる; to round off the corners; 
角をまがる; to turn the corner
Please turn left at the next corner.|つぎの角を、左にまがってください。
I heard that the teacher got knocked out from hitting her head on the corner of a block of tofu.|あの先生は、とうふの角にあたまをぶつけて気ぜつしたらしい。
All three internal angles of an equilateral triangle are equal.|正三角形では，三つの角の大きさがみんな同じです。

三角 / Triangle / さんかく
三角〜;
三角マーク; a triangle mark; 
三角フラスコ; a triangular flask;
三角コーナー; a triangular sink strainer
三角に〜;
三角におる; to fold something into a triangle;
三角に切る; to cut something into triangles;
三角にする; to make something into a triangle
Please go buy triangle crackers.|三角のクラッカーをかってきてください。
I am stuck in a love triangle now.|今、三角かんけいになっちゃってるんだよね。
Canadians must have been inspired by Picasso quite a bit. Square boxes, round pizzas, and triangle pizza slices are everywhere.
  カナダ人はピカソにかなり刺激を受けたに違いない。四角い箱に、丸いピザ、三角のピザスライスがあちこちにある。

四角 / Square, Rectangle, Cube / しかく
四角な〜; 
四角なハコ; a square box;
四角なもの; square things;
四角な入り口; a square entrance
四角に〜; 
四角にたたむ; to fold something into a square; 
四角に見える; to look like a square
Cut the potatoes into cubes, please.|じゃがいもを、四角に切ってください。
I want the twitter icon to go back from the current round shape to the square one.|ツイッターのアイコンの形を今の丸から四角にもどしてほしい。
Why are most windows either squares or rectangles? They should start making windows shaped like Italy.|どうしてほとんどの窓は真四角か長四角なんだろう。イタリア型の窓とかも作ったらいいのに。

言う / To Say / いう
〜と言う; 
ワニカニと言う; it's called "WaniKani", to say "Wanikani";
ありがとうと言う; to say thank you; 
何と言う; to say what
〜言う; 
どう言う; how to say; 
そう言う; to say that way; 
こう言う; to say this way
〜を言う; 
皮肉を言う; to be sarcastic;
お礼を言う; to express gratitude; 
ウソを言う; to tell a lie
Please say it slowly.|ゆっくり言ってください。
How can I say, "Thank you always," in English?|いつもありがとうってえいごで何て言うの？
Are you going to say sorry to Jake for stepping on his foot?|ジェイクに、足を踏んでごめんって言うつもりなの？

谷 / Valley / たに
谷の〜; 
谷の水; water in the valley; 
谷の下; the bottom of a valley;
谷の入り口; the entrance of a valley
〜の谷; 
いくつかの谷; some valleys; 
左の谷; a valley on the left; 
花の谷; a valley of flowers
I saw a bear in that valley.|あそこの谷で、くまを見ました。
In Hakone, there is a valley called Owakudani, which used to be called "Death Valley" a long time ago, and it is a famous tourist spot nowadays.
  はこねには大わく谷というむかし「じごく谷」といわれた谷があって、かんこうの名しょになっています。
The guy who committed suicide in Death Valley was dressed as Darth Vader.|死の谷で自殺した男は、ダース・ベイダーのコスプレをしていた。

走る / To Run / はしる
〜に走る; 
ななめに走る; to run diagonally; 
いっしょに走る; to run together;
西に走る; to run towards the west
〜を走る; 
ガードレールの上を走る; to run over a guardrail;
マラソンコースを走る; to run a marathon course; 
山の中を走る; to run in the mountains
走る〜; 
走ること; running;
走るすがた; a running figure;
走る人; people running
I ran because I was almost late for the movie.|えいがにおくれそうだったので、走りました。
Koichi can run faster than a turtle.|コウイチはカメよりもはやく走れる。
I’ve come to the conclusion that having my head cut off by a samurai would be much better than running for my life.|人生走り続けるより、侍に首をはねられる方がずっとましだという結論に達しました。

走行 / Traveling, Running, Moving, Driving / そうこう
走行を〜; 
走行をつづける; to continue driving;
走行をたのしむ; to enjoy driving; 
走行をする; to drive
走行〜; 
走行中; while driving; 
走行する; to drive
〜走行; 
テスト走行; test driving;
サーキット走行; circuit driving;
ジグザグ走行; zigzag driving
〜の走行;
車の走行; the movement of a car;
バスの走行; the movement of a bus; 
今回の走行; driving this time
Can you tell me the mileage of your car?|あなたの車の走行マイルをおしえてください。
Leaving your seat while the bus is moving is dangerous.|バスの走行中にせきを立つのはきけんです。
The train will start running to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry again as soon as the strike is over.|その電車は、ストライキが終わり次第、ホグワーツ魔法魔術学校への走行を再開する。

近い / Close, Nearby, Near / ちかい
〜に近い;
入り口に近い; close to the entrance;
自分に近い; close to oneself; 
ゼロに近い; close to zero
〜が近い;
山が近い; the mountain is nearby; 
トイレが近い; close to the toilet, frequent urination; 
年が近い; close in age
近い〜; 
近いほう; the closer one; 
近いところ; a place nearby, the near future; 
近いうち; sooner or later, the near future
My house is close to the station.|わたしのいえはえきから近いです。
I'm wearing close to no makeup today.|今日は、ほぼすっぴんに近いです。
Drinking American beer is like doing somersaults in a canoe. It’s too close to water.|アメリカのビールって、カヌーの上ででんぐり返しをするみたいなものだよね。超水に近いんだもん。

近日 / Soon, In A Few Days, Coming Days / きんじつ
近日〜; 
近日中; coming soon;
近日スタート; starting soon;
近日オープン; opening soon
This game is scheduled to be released soon.|このゲームは、近日はつばいよていです。
The movie Mr. Tanaka was looking forward to will finally be released in a few days.|田中さんがたのしみにしていたえいがが、ついに近日こうかいします。
Let’s hang out in person soon and talk about things we saw online.|近日中にお会いして、ネットで見たことを一緒に語り合いましょう。

近年 / Recent Years / きんねん
近年の〜;
近年の学生; students in recent years;
近年の人口; the population in recent years; 
近年の大学; university in recent years
There has been another boom in Japanese alcohol in recent years.|近年、日本しゅがまたブームになっています。
It's a total lie that Disneyland hasn't been that packed in recent years.|近年のディズニーランドは、あまりこんざつしていないというのはかんぜんなるデマです。
The existence of a tofu-eating fugu has slowly been coming to light in recent years.|豆腐を食べている河豚の存在が、近年徐々に明らかとなってきた。

麦 / Wheat, Barley, Oats / むぎ
麦〜; 
麦チョコ; chocolate covered barley puffs;
麦ごはん; cooked barley and rice; 
麦アレルギー; a wheat allergy
麦を〜; 
麦を入れる; to add wheat; 
麦を作る; to grow barley, to grow wheat; 
麦をまぜる; to mix barley
I have a wheat allergy.|わたしは、麦アレルギーがあります。
What's the difference between barley and wheat?|大麦と小麦のちがいは何ですか。
"Squats, squats, squats, squats, oats and squats," he sang while squatting.|「スクワット、スクワット、スクワット、麦とスクワット♪」屈伸をしながら彼は歌った。

男の子 / Boy / おとこのこ
男の子の〜; 
男の子のママ; a boy's mom;
男の子のパパ; a boy's dad; 
男の子の声; a boy's voice
〜の男の子;
クラスの男の子; a boy in the class;
一人の男の子; one boy; 
他の男の子; other boys
男の子が〜; 
男の子が生まれる; a boy is born; 
男の子がいる; there's a boy; 
男の子がする; a boy does something
The boy in front of them is Okada’s child.|まえにいる男の子は、おか田さんの子どもです。
Congratulation, mom. It's a cute baby boy!|おめでとうございます、お母さん。かわいい男の子ですよ。
That boy has so much energy. He just threw twenty eggs at his aunt’s head and managed to run away.|あの男の子は元気が良すぎる。今さっきも叔母さんの頭に卵を二十個投げつけて、うまく逃げ切ったんだ。

毛虫 / Caterpillar / けむし
毛虫が〜; 
毛虫が出る; a caterpillar appears;
毛虫がつく; a caterpillar is on something; 
毛虫がいる; there's a caterpillar
毛虫の〜; 
毛虫のフン; caterpillar droppings; 
毛虫の毛; caterpillar hair; 
毛虫のなかま; types of caterpillar, a caterpillar's companion
There was a caterpillar on the cabbage.|キャベツに毛虫がついていました。
I thought it was a caterpillar, but it was actually my sister's fake eyelashes.|毛虫かと思ったら妹のつけまだった。
I videotaped a giant caterpillar fighting a giant centipede.|私は巨大な毛虫と巨大なムカデが戦っているところをビデオに収めた。

下町 / Downtown, Backstreets / したまち
下町に〜; 
下町にある; to be downtown; 
下町に生まれる; to be born in a downtown area; 
下町にいる; to be downtown
下町の〜; 
下町のふんいき; the atmosphere of the downtown area; 
下町のコーヒー; coffee in the downtown area; 
下町の人々; people in the downtown area
下町で〜; 
下町でそだつ; to grow up in a downtown area;
下町で生まれる; to be born in a downtown area; 
下町でくらす; to live downtown
I grew up downtown.|わたしは、下町でそだちました。
I'd like to go to a good old fashioned saloon in the backstreet areas of the old cities of Tokyo.|とうきょうの下町にあるむかしながらのさかばに行ってみたいです。
A shitamachi is an old Japanese style of downtown; it isn’t the same as the downtown we think of today.|下町とは、日本の古いスタイルのダウンタウンのことで、現代のものとは異なっている。

男の人 / Man / おとこのひと
男の人が〜; 
男の人がやる; a man does something; 
男の人がする; a man does something; 
男の人がいる; there's a man
男の人の〜; 
男の人の車; a man's car;
男の人の手; a man's hand; 
男の人の声; a man's voice
Ah! Is that guy Suzuki?|ああ！この男の人が、すず木さんですか。
The lady next to the foreign guy standing over there is THE famous Kazuyo Matsui.|あそこに立っている外人の男の人のとなりにいる女の人があのゆう名なまつい一代さんです。
The tall guy is wearing a T-shirt and the short guy is wearing a sweater.|背の高い男の人はTシャツを着ていて、背の低い男の人はセーターを着ています。

今まで / Until Now, Up To Now, So Far / いままで
今まで〜;
今まで知らなかった; to not have known something until now;
今まで見たことがない; to never have seen something before; 
今までやってきた; to be done by now
What have you been doing until now?|今まで何をしていたんですか。
Koichi had a million girlfriends up until now, but he is finally about to settle down with one woman.|コウイチが今まで付きあったかの女は百万人に上るが、ようやく一人の女の人におちつきつつある。
You are the best girlfriend I’ve had so far.|お前が今までの中では一番の彼女だよ。

毛糸 / Wool Yarn, Yarn / けいと
毛糸を〜;
毛糸をあむ; to knit yarn; 
毛糸をつかう; to use woolen yarn;
毛糸をえらぶ; to choose a yarn
毛糸の〜;
毛糸のぼうし; a woolly hat; 
毛糸のパンツ; woolen underwear; 
毛糸のセーター; a wool sweater
Do you have green yarn?|みどり色の毛糸はありますか。
It is very cold today, so I am wearing the wool sweater that my friend knitted for me.|今日はとてもさむいので、友人があんでくれた毛糸のセーターをきています。
"Unwind a ball of yarn please. Please. Please!" the ghost asked me over and over again.|「毛糸の玉をほどいてください。お願いします。お願いします。」と、その幽霊は何度も私に頼んできた。

今すぐ / At Once, Right Now, Immediately, Right Away / いますぐ
今すぐ〜;
今すぐする; to do right now;
今すぐやめる; to quit right now;
今すぐやる; to do right now
Let's go meet them right away.|今すぐ、会いに行きましょう。
Be quiet and come over at once!|いいから黙って今すぐ来い!
The fireworks will start any minute now.|花火は今すぐにでもスタートするよ。

里 / Hometown, Village, One's Parents' Home / さと
里に〜; 
里におりる; to come down to the village; 
里に出る; to go out in the village;
里に来る; to come to the village, to come to one's home village
里の〜; 
里の女; village women, women from one's home village; 
里の人々; people from the village, people from one's home village
There's a bear in the village!|里にクマが出たぞ！
If you use language like that, you'll give away where you're from.|そんな言ばづかいをしていると、お里がしれますよ。
This candy is called "Bamboo Shoot Village".|このおやつの名前は「たけのこの里」です。

本当 / Reality, Truth, Real, True / ほんとう
本当に〜; 
本当にいる; to really exist;
本当になる; to become real; 
本当にある; to really exist
本当の〜; 
本当の自分; one's true self;
本当のすがた; one's true character; 
本当のはなし; a true story
Is that true?|それは本当ですか？
I heard that these days university students write essays on their smart phones, but I wonder if that's true.|さいきんの大学生はスマホでレポートをかくってきいたけど、本当かなあ。
I’m really awful at it.|本当に下手なのです。

空車 / Open Taxi, Empty Parking Space / くうしゃ
空車の〜;
空車のタクシー; a vacant taxi; 
空車のバス; a bus available for hire
空車〜; 
空車サイン; a vacant sign (on a taxi); 
空車タクシー; an empty cab; 
空車スペース; an empty parking space
When a taxi is displaying "Open Taxi," there are no customers aboard.|タクシーのひょうじが「空車」となっているときは、おきゃくさんはだれものっていません。
I'm really curious why the parking lots around here are always empty.|この辺りのコインパーキングがいつも空車なのがふしぎでしょうがない。
No empty taxis have passed us.|空車のタクシーが全然通らない。

万人 / All People, Everybody / ばんにん
万人が〜; 
万人がみとめる; everybody approves;
万人がたのしめる; everybody enjoys; 
万人が見る; everybody sees, everybody watches
万人に〜; 
万人にうける; to be appreciated by everybody; 
万人に分かる; to be understood by everybody;
万人にあてはまる; to apply to everybody
That actor is popular with everyone.|このはいゆうは、万人に人気がある。
I heard that everybody likes the smell of parakeets.|セキセイインコのにおいは万人にうけるにおいらしい。
This seems to be the common impression among everybody.|これは万人に共通の感想だろう。

会 / Meeting, Assembly, Party / かい
〜会; 
女子会; a girls-only gathering; 
オフ会; off-line meetups; 
子ども会; a children's association
〜の会;
かえりの会; a class meeting held just before going home;
かぞくの会; an association for families; 
ボランティアの会; a volunteer group
I’m having a girls-only party on Friday night.|きんようびの夜に、女子会をします。
The assembly with those members sounds very interesting.|そのメンバーの会はとてもおも白そうですね。
Let’s open this meeting again!|この会、また開こうよ！

考古学 / Archeology, Archaeology / こうこがく
考古学〜; 
考古学チーム; an archeological team;
考古学コース; an archaeology course; 
考古学ファン; an archaeology fan
考古学の〜;
考古学の本; an archaeology book;
考古学のデータ; archaeological data; 
考古学の先生; an archaeology teacher
I’m interested in Japanese archeology.|わたしは、日本の考古学にきょうみがあります。
I'm going to quit this archeology job at the end of the month.|今月末でこの考古学のしごとをやめるんです。
You can study archeology at this university.|この大学では、考古学を学べます。

一生 / Whole Life, All Through Life, Lifelong / いっしょう
一生を〜; 
一生を左右する; to influence one's whole life;
一生をすごす; to spend one's whole life; 
一生をかける; to invest a lifetime
一生〜;
一生サラリーマン; a salaryman for life;
一生大切; important for one's whole life; 
一生つづける; to continue all through life
I will treasure this ring my entire life.|このゆびわは、一生、大切にします。
My father remained single all his life.|わたしの父は、しぬまで一生どくしんでした。
I’ll make up for it with my life.|一生かけて償います。

仕草 / Action, Gesture, Behavior / しぐさ
〜仕草;
同じ仕草; the same gesture; 
ちょっとした仕草; delicate movements;
ドキッとする仕草; surprising gestures
〜の仕草; 
人の仕草; other people's gestures; 
手の仕草; hand gestures; 
バイバイの仕草; the gesture for goodbye
仕草を〜;
仕草をくりかえす; to repeat a gesture;
仕草をする; to gesture
I love to see her picking flowers.|かの女が花をつむ仕草が大すきです。
Our class teacher is always exaggerating her gestures.|うちのクラスの先生は、仕草がいつも大げさだ。
I was appalled by the smoking adults’ behavior.|煙草を吸う大人の仕草にドキッとした。

〜形 / Form, Tense / けい
〜形; 
ます形; masu form; 
です形; desu form; 
て形; te form
When you talk using desu and masu forms you sound polite.|です・ます形ではなしをするとていねいにきこえます。
A person who starts conversations with negative form sentences is likely to have some difficulties in communicating with others.ひてい形から会わに入る人はコミュしょうのかのうせいがたかい。
Why did you just say that in past tense?|どうして今、過去形で言ったの？

外交 / Diplomacy / がいこう
外交を〜; 
外交をリードする; to lead diplomacy efforts; 
外交をすすめる; to advance diplomacy; 
外交をする; to engage in diplomacy
外交〜;
外交力; diplomatic skills;
外交ルート; diplomatic routes
外交の〜;
外交のあり方; how diplomacy should be conducted;
外交のやり方; how to conduct diplomacy
We discussed Japanese diplomacy today.|今日は、日本の外交についてはなしあいをしました。
We have a shortage of diplomats.|外交かんが不足している。
Japan isn’t very good at diplomacy.|日本は外交があまり上手ではない。

生まれ / Birthplace, Birth / うまれ
〜生まれ; 
五月生まれ; born in May;
冬生まれ; born in winter;
イギリス生まれ; born in England
I’m Japanese, but I was born in San Francisco.|わたしは日本人ですが、生まれはサンフランシスコです。
My wife is American-born Japanese.|つまは、アメリカ生まれの日本人なんです。
My birthplace is Osaka, but I was raised in Nara.|生まれは大阪ですが、育ちは奈良です。

大体 / Generally, About, General, Gist / だいたい
大体の〜;
大体のイメージ; a rough image; 
大体の人; most people
大体〜;
大体半分; about half;
大体分かる; to mostly understand;
大体おなじ; about the same
That’s about right.|大体あっています。
We are about the same height.|大体同じぐらいのせです。
I generally get up at 6 o’clock.|私は大体6時に起きます。

文学 / Literature / ぶんがく 
文学の〜; 
文学の先生; a literature teacher;
文学の一つ; one genre of literature, one literary work
文学〜; 
文学コース; a literature course; 
文学少女; a girl who loves literature; 
文学少年; a boy who loves literature
〜文学;
ミステリー文学; mystery literature;
プロレタリア文学; proletarian literature
What’s the significance of reading literature?|文学をよむいみとは何だろうか。
I was majoring in English literature in university.|わたしは大学で、イギリス文学をせんこうしていました。
I think Haruki Murakami's work is pop literature pretending to be pure literature.|村上春樹の作品は、純文学のふりをした大衆文学だと思います。

本来 / Originally, Primarily, Essentially, Naturally / ほんらい
本来の〜;
本来の力; one's full potential; 
本来の自分; one's original self;
本来のすがた; one's natural character
This site was originally used as a turtle habitat.|このサイトは本来かめのせいそくちとしてつかわれていた。
Do you know the original meaning of that word?|その言ばの本来のいみをしっていますか。
Kanji in and of itself isn’t a bad thing.|本来漢字は悪いものではない。

〜斤 / Bread Loaf Counter, Counter for Loaves of Bread / きん
〜斤; 
半斤; half a loaf;
二斤; two loaves; 
一斤; one loaf
I ate four loaves of bread in one sitting from stress.|ストレスで4斤のパンを一気に食べてしまった。
It'd be cheaper to bake your own bread if you're buying five loaves of white bread at a time.|食パンを五斤買うなら、自分で焼いた方が安いよ。
Eight loaves of bread will make twenty-three egg sandwiches and twenty-three tuna sandwiches.|8斤のパンで、卵サンドが23個とツナサンドが23個できる予定だ。

作用 / Effect, Action, Operation / さよう
作用が〜; 
作用がはたらく; to be effective; 
作用がある; to have an effect; 
作用がなくなる; to stop having an effect
Teach me about the effects of alcohol.|アルコールの作用をおしえてください。
I learned Newton's third law of motion at school today.|今日、学こうで、作用・はん作用のほうそくを学んだ。
Does this cake-flavored medicine have any side effects?|このケーキの味がする薬には、副作用はありませんか？
