直る / To Be Fixed, To Fix / なおる
〜が直る; 
バグが直る; the bug is fixed (computer); 
おもちゃが直る; the toy is fixed; 
クセが直る; the habit is fixed
〜直る; 
すぐ直る; to be fixed immediately; 
まだ直る; can still fix; 
きっと直る; will probably get fixed
When can I get my broken car fixed?|こしょうした車が直るのはいつですか。
If it makes you feel better, then I don't mind at all, Aya.|それでアヤの気げんが直るなら、おれはぜんぜんかまわないよ。
The farmer’s broken tractor was fixed.|農夫の壊れたトラクターは直った。

海王星 / Neptune / かいおうせい
海王星の〜; 
海王星の引力; Neptune's gravitational pull; 
海王星の中心; the center of Neptune; 
海王星の東; east of Neptune
海王星を〜;
海王星を見つける; to find Neptune;
海王星を見る; to look at Neptune;
海王星をさがす; to search for Neptune
Neptune is the eighth planet from the sun.|海王星は、太ようから八ばん目のわく星です。
I've always dreamed of going to Neptune.|海王星に行くことをずっとゆめ見てきたんです。
Neptune was discovered on September 23rd, 1846.|海王星は1846年9月23日に発見されました。

火星 / Mars / かせい
火星〜; 
火星行き; Mars-bound; 
火星上; on Mars; 
火星人; a Martian
火星に〜; 
火星にいる; to be on Mars; 
火星に向かう; to head to Mars; 
火星に行く; to go to Mars
火星の〜; 
火星の土地; the land on Mars; 
火星の人; a Martian; 
火星の大気; the atmosphere on Mars
Mars and Saturn will be visible tonight!|今夜は火星と土星が見えるよ！
Is there water on Mars?|火星には水がありますか？|
Olympus Mons is the name of a volcano on Mars.|オリンポス山は、火星にある火山の名です。

木星 / Jupiter / もくせい
木星の〜; 
木星の近く; close to Jupiter; 
木星の人; person from Jupiter;
木星の大気; Jupiter's atmosphere
木星が〜;
木星が見える; can see Jupiter;
木星が写る; Jupiter appears in a photograph;
木星がある; there is Jupiter
I'd like to go to Jupiter someday.|いつか、木星に行きたいと思っています。
What is there between Mars and Jupiter?|火星と木星のあいだには、何がありますか。
This is how planets like Jupiter and Saturn were born.|木星や土星はこうして生まれたんですよ。

人里 / Human Habitation, Village / ひとざと
人里に〜;
人里に出る; to go out to the village; 
人里に下りる; to go down to the village;
人里に来る; to come to the village
Bears sometimes come out of the mountains into human habitations.|クマは山から人里に出てくることがある。
We're in the middle of nowhere, huh?|ここは人里はなれたところだな。
The moon was brightly visible from the middle of the remote mountains.|人里はなれた山の中からは、月が明るく見える。

〜分 / Minute, Minutes / ふん
〜分; 
五分; five minutes; 
二分; two minutes;
四分; four minutes
It generally takes about two minutes.|大体、二分くらいかかります。
Shall we rest for fifteen minutes?|十五分休みましょうか。
That first year student has been hiding under the bed for forty-five minutes.|その一年生はベッドの下に四十五分もかくれている。

失う / To Lose, To Part With, To Lose Something, To Part With Something / うしなう
〜を失う; 
全てを失う; to lose everything;
気を失う; to lose consciousness; 
力を失う; to lose strength
I already have nothing to lose.|もうおれには失うものが何もないんだ。
The information that Tofugu gambled away its entire assets is not reliable.|トーフグがギャンブルで全ざいさんを失ったというじょうほうは、しんぴょうせいに欠けている。
The worst day of my life was when I lost my AKB48 Barbie doll.|人生最悪の日は、私がAKB48のフィギュアを失った日です。

ナポレオン三世 / Napoleon The Third, Napoleon III / なぽれおんさんせい, ナポレオンさんせい
ナポレオン三世の〜; 
ナポレオン三世の弟; Napoleon The Third's younger brother; 
ナポレオン三世のクーデター; Napoleon The Third's coup d’état; 
ナポレオン三世の本; book on Napoleon The Third
Today, we're going to learn about Napoleon The Third.|今日は、ナポレオン三世について学びましょう。
Napoleon III was born in the year 1808.|ナポレオン三世は1808年に生まれた。
Napoleon Bonaparte is more famous than Napoleon III, isn't he?|ナポレオン・ボナパルトはナポレオン三世より有名ですよね。

お兄さん / Older Brother, Guy / おにいさん
〜のお兄さん; 
友人のお兄さん; a friend's older brother; 
花ちゃんのお兄さん; Hana's older brother; 
大学生のお兄さん; Older Brother who is a university student
お兄さんは〜; 
お兄さんはこわい; Older Brother is scary; 
お兄さんはおもしろい; Older Brother is amusing; 
お兄さんはやさしい; Older Brother is kind
お兄さんと〜; 
お兄さんとあそぶ; to play with Older Brother;
お兄さんとお姉さん; Older Brother and Older Sister; 
お兄さんといっしょ; together with Older Brother
お兄さんが〜; 
お兄さんがする; Older Brother does something; 
お兄さんがいる; to have an older brother, Older Brother is here;
お兄さんがやる; Older Brother does something
お兄さんの〜; 
お兄さんのノート; Older Brother's notes; 
お兄さんのビー玉; Older Brother's marble; 
お兄さんのかお; Older Brother's face
Which one is Takashi’s older brother?|どれがたかしのお兄さんですか。
The delivery guy today had exactly the type of face I go for.|今日のたっきゅうびんのお兄さんのかおがタイプすぎた。
I can’t help thinking about my older brother’s nose hair.|お兄さんのはなげがきになってしかたがない。

考え / Thought, A Thought / かんがえ
考えが〜; 
考えがまとまる; thoughts take shape; 
考えがかわる; to change one's mind; 
考えがある; to have a thought
考えを〜; 
考えをもつ; to have an idea; 
考えをまとめる; to collect one's thoughts; 
考えを知る; to learn someone's thoughts
〜の考え; 
一つの考え; one thought; 
自分の考え; one's own thoughts;
人の考え; people's thoughts
お考え〜;
お考えになる; to think;
お考えください; please think;
お考えがある; to have a thought
I can never explain my own thoughts well.|いつも自分の考えを上手くせつめいできません。
Your thoughts are too optimistic.|あなたの考えはあますぎます。
Can I buy your thoughts for 100 yen?|あなたの考えを百円で買わせてもらえませんか？

考え方 / Way Of Thinking, Thought Process / かんがえかた
考え方が〜;
考え方がかわる; the way of thinking changes; 
考え方が分かる; to understand the way of thinking;
考え方がちがう; the way of thinking is different
〜の考え方; 
人の考え方; people's way of thinking;
自分の考え方; one's own way of thinking;
一つの考え方; one way of thinking
考え方を〜;
考え方を学ぶ; to learn how to think;
考え方をもつ; to have a way of thinking;
考え方をかえる; to change one's way of thinking
People have their own way of thinking.|考え方は、人それぞれです。
My mom and dad's thought processes are totally different to begin with.|そもそも、父と母は考え方がまったくちがうんです。
Even if you really are an awful woman, thinking badly about yourself still isn’t a healthy way to think.|自分のことを悪い人間だと思うのは、もし自分が実際に悪女だったとしても、良くない考え方です。

形 / Shape, Appearance, Form / かたち
形に〜; 
形になる; to take shape; 
形にする; to make something take shape;
形にできる; to take shape
〜の形; 
一つの形; one shape; 
口の形; shape of a mouth; 
花の形; shape of a flower
I spoke with my wife and we decided to go with this shape, because we value substance over form.|つまとそうだんして、形より内ようをおもんじたけっか、この形にきめました。
With this, I could somehow manage to keep up appearances.|これでなんとか形がつきました。
Hey, do you want to rub my butt-shaped belly?|ねえ、私の、お尻の形をしたお腹、撫でたい？

欠点 / Shortcoming, Fault, Defect, Flaw, Weakness, Weak Point / けってん
〜の欠点;
自分の欠点; one's own shortcoming; 
人の欠点; people's shortcomings; 
他人の欠点; another person's shortcoming
欠点が〜; 
欠点がある; to have a shortcoming; 
欠点が分かる; to know a shortcoming; 
欠点が見える; to be able to see a shortcoming
欠点を〜; 
欠点をカバーする; to cover up shortcomings; 
欠点を知る; to know one's shortcomings;
欠点を直す; to fix a shortcoming
Everyone has some sort of weakness.|だれだって、何かしらの欠点をもってるものさ。
Oh, I just remembered, she doesn't have any faults.|そうだ、ちょっと思い出したんだけど、かの女って欠点がないんだよ。
I’ll never become a professional soccer player because I have too many shortcomings, for example, I don’t have any legs.
  私は欠点がありすぎるので、絶対にプロのサッカー選手にはなれません。たとえば、私には足がありません。

〜氏 / Mister, Madam, Miss, Mixter / し
〜氏; 
川口氏; Mr. Kawaguchi;
田中氏; Mr. Tanaka; 
ベッカム氏; Mr. Beckham
As we all know, Mr. Abe’s statements never change.|やはり、アベ氏のはつげんはいつも全くブレませんね。
Mr. Koichi and Mr. Viet have good chemistry.|コウイチ氏とビエト氏はとても気が合う。
Yo, Mr. White, why don’t you just sit down?|おお、ホワイト氏、ちょっと座れば？

氏名 / Full Name, First And Last Name / しめい
〜の氏名;
父母の氏名; parents' names; 
他人の氏名; another person's full name;
自分の氏名; one's own full name
氏名を〜;
氏名をかく; to write one's full name;
氏名を言う; to say someone's full name;
氏名を入力する; to enter a full name
You at least want to be able to write your full name in Japanese, right?|自分の氏名ぐらいは、日本ごでかけるようになりたいよね。
For your information, my name is Ichiko Ko.|ごさん考までに、わたしの氏名は、高 一子です。
If you would please write your first and last name on the waiver, we will proceed with shooting an apple off of your head with a cannon.
  そちらの誓約書に氏名をご記入頂ければ、大砲で貴方の頭の上の林檎を撃ちぬいて差し上げます。

自由 / Freedom, Liberty / じゆう
自由な〜; 
自由なお金; money to use freely;
自由な社会; a free society; 
自由な生活; a free life
自由に〜; 
自由にできる; to be able to do freely; 
自由になる; to become free; 
自由にする; to set free
〜の自由; 
本当の自由; real freedom; 
人の自由; people's freedom; 
心の自由; freedom of the heart
I started living by myself and I have some free time to spare.|一人ぐらしをはじめて、自由なじかんができました。
To obtain freedom, we still have a long way to go, but we will never give up.|自由になるための道のりはまだまだとおいですが、ぜったいにあきらめません。
The money Japanese salarymen can use freely every month is, on average, usually only 35,000 yen.|日本のサラリーマンが自由に使えるお金は、毎月平均たった三万五千円だ。

理由 / Reason, Motive, Excuse / りゆう
〜な理由; 
大きな理由; big reason; 
どんな理由; For what reason?; 
そんな理由; that kind of reason
理由が〜; 
理由ができる; reason is made; 
理由が分かる; to understand the reason;
理由がある; there is a reason
〜の理由; 
本当の理由; real reason; 
何らかの理由; some reason; 
一つの理由; one reason
理由を〜; 
理由を考える; to think of a reason;
理由をきく; to ask the reason; 
理由を言う; to say the reason
〜理由;
この理由; this reason; 
同じ理由; same reason; 
いかなる理由; whatever reason, for what reason
I don’t have any specific reason.|とくに理由はありません。
Do you have any reason for not having settled your business expenses yet?|未だけいひのせいさんをしてないのには、何か理由があるんですか？
For logical reasons, he was led to believe that the culprit in the case of the missing rubber gloves was the balloonist.|論理的な理由から、彼は行方不明になったゴム手袋の事件の犯人が風船屋であることを導いた。

〜札 / Bill, Note / さつ
〜札; 
一万円札; 10000 yen bill; 
百ドル札; 100 dollar bill; 
千円札; 1000 yen bill
Could you give me change for a 10,000 yen bill?|一万円札を小ぜににくずしてもらえませんか？
Can you break this 2,000 yen bill to two 1,000 yen bills, please?|この二千円札、千円札二枚と両がえしてくれない？
Apparently, there are many hundred-dollar bills hidden all over the Tofugu office.|トーフグのオフィスのあちこちに、百ドル札が隠されているらしいぜ。

国民 / The People, Citizens, National / こくみん
国民〜; 
国民生活; the people's living; 
国民全て; all the people; 
国民年金; national pension
国民の〜; 
国民の声; voice of the people; 
国民のみなさん; the people; 
国民の生活; lives of the people
国民に〜; 
国民に知らせる; to notify the people;
国民にアピールする; to appeal to the people; 
国民に見せる; to show the people
国民が〜; 
国民が作る; the people create; 
国民がえらぶ; the people choose; 
国民がする; the people do
Will the people really give us their approval?|本当に国民はわれわれにさんせいしてくれるのでしょうか。
How do you become a citizen of Japan?|どうすれば日本国民になれますか。
The people waiting in line for the new PS4 game last night froze to death.|昨夜、PS4の新ゲームを買うために並んでいた国民たちは、凍って死にました。

辺り / Area, Vicinity, Neighborhood / あたり
辺りの〜;
辺りの音; the sound in the area;
辺りの山; the mountain in the area; 
辺りの人; the people in the area
辺りを〜; 
辺りを見る; to look around the area;
辺りを歩く; to walk around the area;
辺りを見回す; to look around the area
〜辺り; 
どの辺り; What area?; 
この辺り; around here; 
その辺り; that area
The area fell silent.|辺りはしーんとしずまりかえっていた。
Oh, I forgot to tell you that there is no station in this neighborhood.|そうだ、ちょっと言いわすれていたんだけど、この辺りにえきはないからね。
His bathroom must be somewhere around here.|彼のトイレはこの辺りに違いない。

この辺 / Around Here, This Area / このへん
この辺で〜; 
この辺で食べる; to eat in this area; 
この辺でやめる; to stop around here; 
この辺で休む; to rest in this area
この辺の〜;
この辺の川; the river in this area; 
この辺のコンビニ; convenience stores in this area; 
この辺のはなし; this area of the conversation, story of this area
There aren’t many people around here, so it’s quiet.|この辺は、人が少ないのでしずかです。
Is there Starbucks around here?|この辺に、スタバはありますか？
You have to be careful about what you say around here. People on this side of town will spit in your face just for whistling.
  この辺では、言葉に気をつけた方がいいぜ。町のこちら側に住んでいるやつらは、口笛を吹いただけでも顔に唾をぶっかけてきやがるからな。

付ける / To Attach Something, To Attach / つける
〜を付ける; 
気を付ける; to be careful; 
力を付ける; to gain strength;
手を付ける; to start work on, to lay one's hand on
〜に付ける; 
上に付ける; to attach above; 
体に付ける; to attach to one's body; 
前に付ける; to attach to the front of something
Are you one of those people who puts ketchup in their grilled cheese?|グリルドチーズにはケチャップを付けるはですか？
Why did you name your doggy Nikka?|どうしてワンちゃんに、ニッカって名前を付けたんですか？
Why are you attaching leeches to your head?|どうして頭に蛭を付けているんですか？

以外 / Other Than, Excepting, Except For / いがい 
〜以外; 
自分以外; other than oneself; 
学校以外; aside from school;
本人以外; aside from the individual concerned
I’m okay with anything other than beer.|ビール以外ならなんでもいいです。
I read nothing but manga.|マンガ以外は何もよみません。
Other than the groom looking down the front of the bride’s dress during the ceremony, it was a nice wedding.|式の間中新郎が花嫁の胸元を上から眺めていたこと以外は、とても素敵な結婚式でした。

以上 / More Than, Or More, That's All / いじょう
〜以上;
半分以上; more than half;
百万以上; more than a million;
三才以上; three years and older
Only people 18 or older can watch this movie.|このえいがは、十八才以上しか見れません。
That's all for the paperwork.|手つづきは以上です。
People who are 100 years old or older must wear bras.|１００歳以上の人は、必ずブラジャーを着用し無くてはならない。

以前 / Previously, Before / いぜん
以前の〜; 
以前の生活; life as it had been before;
以前の自分; my former self; 
以前のバージョン; previous version
以前から〜; 
以前からしている; to have been doing from before; 
以前からある; to have been present from before;
以前から知っている; to have known from before
以前に〜; 
以前にいた; was there previously; 
以前にした; did previously; 
以前にあった; was previously there
I met you once before at a party, right?|以前、パーティーで一どお会いしましたよね。
I used to get seasick all the time, but not anymore.|以前はよく船よいしていたんですが、今はさっぱりなくなりました。
My best friend is from a planet that was previously unknown to astronomers.|私の親友は、以前は天文学者に知られていなかった惑星の出身です。

内ポケット / Inside Pocket / うちぽけっと, うちポケット
内ポケットの〜; 
内ポケットの中; inside of the inner pocket;
内ポケットの大きさ; size of the inner pocket;
内ポケットの色; color of the inner pocket
内ポケットが〜; 
内ポケットがほしい; want an inner pocket; 
内ポケットがある; there is an inner pocket; 
内ポケットがない; there is no inner pocket
内ポケットに〜;
内ポケットに入る; to fit in the inner pocket;
内ポケットに入れる; to put in the inside pocket; 
内ポケットにかくす; to hide in the inside pocket
This suit jacket doesn't have an inside pocket.|このスーツのジャケットには内ポケットがありません。
This notebook fits into the inside pocket of a bag.|このノートは、バッグの内ポケットに入ります。
Look, that kid's putting bugs in his inside pocket.|見て、あの子、内ポケットに虫を入れてるよ！

失礼 / Rude, Rudeness, Impoliteness, Excuse Me / しつれい
失礼な〜; 
失礼なこと; rude action; 
失礼な言い方; rude way of speaking; 
失礼な人; rude person
失礼に〜; 
失礼になる; to be rude; 
失礼に当たる; to be considered rude;
失礼に思う; to think something rude
失礼を〜; 
失礼をする; to excuse oneself, to be rude; 
失礼をしでかす; to go and do something rude;
失礼を言う; to say something rude
Excuse me, but can you speak Japanese?|失礼ですが、日本ごははなせますか。
If you use "anata" in an actual conversation, it often sounds impolite.|じっさいの会話で「あなた」という言ばを使うと、失礼にきこえることが多いです。
Would you think I’m rude if I told you that you’re fat?|もし私があなたに太いと言えば、失礼だと思いますか？

必ず / Surely, Certainly, Without Exception, Always, Definitely / かならず
必ず〜; 
必ずある; something is certainly there, something certainly exists; 
必ず言う; to certainly say;
必ずする; to definitely do
He’ll definitely come back, so I’m okay.|かれは必ずもどってくるので、大じょうぶです。
You should always take out your contacts before going to bed. Otherwise your eyesight will get worse.|必ずねる前にコンタクトを外した方がいいよ。でないとし力がさらにおちるよ。
I will certainly complete WaniKani no matter what.|何があっても必ずさい後までワニカニをやりとげます。

必死 / Frantic, Desperate, Certain Death, Sure Death / ひっし
必死の〜; 
必死のアピール; a frantic appeal; 
必死のフォロー; a frantic follow-up, frantically smooth things over; 
必死の思い; desperate thoughts
必死に〜; 
必死になる; to become desperate;
必死に生きる; live desperately;
必死にする; to frantically do
必死で〜; 
必死で学ぶ; to learn desperately; 
必死でさがす; to search frantically; 
必死ではたらく; to work desperately
必死な〜; 
必死な人; a desperate person;
必死なすがた; a desperate figure; 
必死な思い; desperate thoughts
Even if I try desperately, it might still be futile.|必死にがんばっても、どうにもならないこともある。
I heard that my grandfather went to the war front prepared to die.|わたしのそ父は、必死のかくごでせんじょうに向かったそうです。
"Captain, I really need to return to Mars. I left my iPhone there," he said desperately.|「隊長、私はどうしても火星に戻る必要があるんです。アイフォンを忘れてしまったのです。」彼は必死に頼んだ。

未だ / Not Yet, Still / いまだ, まだ
未だに〜; 
未だに忘れられない; still can’t forget;
未だにある; something is still there; 
未だに分からない; still don't understand
There’s still never been a person who’s lived to two hundred years old.|未だ二百才まで生きた人げんはいない。
I’m still jet-lagged.|未だに、時さボケがあるんですよね。
I’m not sure if I got the job yet.|仕事が決まったのかどうかは未だに分からないんだ。

未来 / Future, The Future, Distant Future, The Distant Future / みらい
未来の〜; 
未来の自分; one's future self; 
未来の社会; future society; 
未来の生活; future living
未来を〜; 
未来を作る; to make the future;
未来を見る; to see the future; 
未来を考える; to think about the future
〜の未来; 
国の未来; future of the country; 
バラ色の未来; rose-colored future;
自分の未来; one's own future
If I could time travel, I’d want to go to the future.|タイムスリップできるなら、未来に行きたいな。
On the weekend, I was traveling back and forth through time.|週末は、未来とか去を行ったり来たりしていました。
Koichi has a bright future as an astronaut, so please don't interrupt him.|コウイチにはうちゅうひ行しとしての大きな未来があるんだから、たのむからじゃましないでやってくれよ。

末 / The End, End / すえ
〜の末; 
五月の末; at the end of May;
今年の末; at the end of this year;
去年の末; at the end of last year
末の〜; 
末の弟; youngest brother; 
末の妹; youngest sister;
末の子; youngest child
〜末;
もめた末; after a dispute;
考えた末; after thinking something over; 
うろうろした末; after wandering about
If this kind of game is popular, then it’s the end of the world.|こんなあそびがはやるとは、世も末だな。
You must be looking forward to seeing what your son might end up being in the future.|おたくのむす子さんは末が本当にたのしみですね。
After a heated discussion, my youngest son left to bury my gold somewhere.|激しい口論の末、末息子は私の金をどこかに埋めるために出て行ってしまいました。

年末 / Year End, End Of The Year, End Of Year / ねんまつ
〜の年末; 
今年の年末; end of this year;
今回の年末; end of this year;
去年の年末; end of last year
年末に〜; 
年末に行く; to go at the end of the year;
年末にする; to do at the end of the year;
年末になる; to become the end of the year
年末の〜; 
年末の休み; year-end holiday; 
年末の１２月; end of the year December;
年末のあいさつ; year-end greetings
年末〜; 
年末ジャンボ; year-end jumbo (lottery); 
年末セール; end of year sale; 
年末イベント; end of year event
I’m sorry, but I’ll be super busy around the end of the year and I probably can’t make time for it.|すみませんが、年末は、ちょっとバタバタしてじかんがとれなさそうです。
Michael was transferred to Sales Division II of Tofugu at the end of the year.|マイケルは、年末にトーフグのだい二えいぎょうぶにいどうになりました。
I hope to have gotten over my addiction to ice cubes before the end of the year.|年末までには、氷中毒から立ち直れるといいんだけど。

月末 / End Of The Month, Month End / げつまつ
月末の〜; 
月末の休日; holiday at the end of the month; 
月末のデータ; end-of-month data; 
月末の平日; weekdays at the end of the month
月末に〜; 
月末にする; to do at the end of the month;
月末になる; to become the end of the month;
月末に行う; to carry out at the end of the month
I’m going to lose five kilos by the end of this month.|月末までに五キロやせます。
This company exploits its employees too much, so I'm bailing out at the end of the month!|ここ、ブラックきぎょうすぎるから、月末ににげ出すわ。
My boss pays me in koala bears. I get two at the end of every month.|私の上司は、コアラで給料を払います。毎月末、わたしには二匹のコアラが支払われます。

高校 / High School, Senior High School / こうこう
〜高校; 
私立高校; private high school;
公立高校; public high school; 
市立高校; municipal high school
高校の〜;
高校の先生; high school teacher; 
高校の友人; high school friend;
高校の女子; high school girls
高校に〜; 
高校に入る; to enter high school;
高校に入学する; to be admitted to a high school, to enroll in a high school;
高校に行く; to go to high school
高校〜; 
高校一年生; first year high school student; 
高校生活; life in high school; 
高校時代; one's high school days
It only takes 10 minutes to get to the high school if you drive.|高校まで、車で行けば十分ですよ。
What kind of food do you guys usually have for lunch in high school?|高校ではいつも、おひるにどんなものを食べていますか？
I didn’t start talking until I went to high school. Now I can’t shut up.|高校に行って初めて話をし始めたんです。そして、今は、話を止めることができません。

学校 / School / がっこう
学校に〜; 
学校にいる; to be at school; 
学校に行く; to go to school; 
学校に入る; to enter a school
学校で〜; 
学校でする; to do at school; 
学校で学ぶ; to learn at school;
学校でできる; to be able to do at school
〜学校; 
デザイン学校; design school; 
スキー学校; ski school;
バレエ学校; ballet school
〜の学校; 
全ての学校; all schools;
他の学校; another school; 
今の学校; one's current school
学校〜; 
学校生活; school life; 
学校見学; school visit, school tour;
学校みたい; like a school
学校の〜; 
学校のホームページ; school home page;
学校の先生; schoolteacher;
学校のテスト; school test
I go to school on foot.|わたしは歩いて学校に行っています。
I have to submit an absentee notice to my school, so can I have one, please?|学校にてい出するので、ちえんしょう明しょを下さい。
Why are we barbecuing hot dogs at school during class today?|今日はどうして学校で授業中にホットドッグをバーベキューするの？

夏 / Summer / なつ
〜の夏; 
今年の夏; this year's summer;
去年の夏; last year's summer; 
来年の夏; next year's summer
夏の〜;
夏のおわり; the end of summer; 
夏の大会; summer conference, summer tournament;
夏のボーナス; summer bonus
夏に〜; 
夏に行う; to carry out in the summer;
夏になる; to become summer;
夏に行く; to go in the summer
This summer is hotter than last year.|今年の夏は、さく年よりもあついです。
I want to go buy some summer dresses sometime soon.|近いうちに夏ワンピをかいに行きたいんだよね。
Summer is only good for three things. Movies, video games, and duck carving.|夏にして楽しいことは三つだけだ。映画、ビデオゲーム、それから木彫の鴨を作ること。

夏休み / Summer Vacation, Summer Break, Summer Holiday / なつやすみ
夏休みの〜;
夏休みのおわり; the end of summer vacation; 
夏休みの作文; summer vacation essay; 
夏休みの工作; summer vacation handicrafts
夏休み〜; 
夏休みイベント; summer vacation event; 
夏休みシーズン; summer vacation season; 
夏休み前; before summer vacation
夏休みに〜; 
夏休みになる; to enter summer vacation;
夏休みに入る; to enter summer vacation;
夏休みに行く; to go during summer vacation
Summer vacation is one month long.|夏休みは、一ヶ月あります。
I can't believe all the different kinds of fish we saw when diving in Okinawa during summer break.|夏休みにおきなわでダイビングをした時、しんじられないくらいたく山のしゅるいの魚を見ることができました！
When I was a kid, my parents took me to Disney Land for summer vacation, but they forgot me there when they left. It was the only time I was happy to be lost.|小さいころ、
  夏休みに両親がディズニーランドに連れて行ってくれました。でも、帰り際、両親は何と私のことを忘れて帰ってしまったのです。あの時だけは、迷子になったことを嬉しく思いましたね。

家 / Home, House / いえ, うち 
家に〜;
家にある; to be at home; 
家にいる; to be at home; 
家に行く; to go to a house
家が〜; 
家ができる; a home is constructed;
家がある; to have a house; 
家がならぶ; houses are lined up
家の〜; 
家の前; in front of a house; 
家の近く; near home; 
家の人; member of one's household
家を〜; 
家を見る; to see a house; 
家を作る; to make a home; 
家を出る; to leave home
家で〜;
家でいる; to be home; 
家でできる; to be able to do at home;
家でする; to do at home
〜の家; 
木の家; wooden house; 
となりの家; the house next door;
自分の家; one's own home
Everyone, please stop by my house.|みなさん、家にあそびに来てください。
You really need to clean your house.|いいかげん、家をかた付けた方がいいよ。
Home is where the heart is. And the food.|家とは、みんなの心と食べ物がある場所です。

作家 / Author, Writer, Novelist / さっか
〜作家; 
人気作家; popular author; 
ベストセラー作家; best-selling author;
有名作家; famous author
作家の〜;
作家の一人; one of the authors; 
作家の手; an author's hand;
作家の本; author's book
作家〜; 
作家生活; author's daily life; 
作家たち; authors; 
作家さん; author
I got an autograph from an aspiring author.|あこがれの作家さんから、サインをもらいました。
This novelist pushed things pretty far, eh?|この作家、ずいぶん思い切ったね。
That best-selling author’s hobby is playing soccer.|あのベストセラー作家の趣味はサッカーだ。

弱い / Weak / よわい
〜に弱い; 
アルコールに弱い; sensitive to alcohol;
水に弱い; sensitive to water;
ストレスに弱い; sensitive to stress
〜が弱い; 
力が弱い; weak strength; 
気が弱い; cowardly; 
体が弱い; weak constitution
弱い〜;
弱いところ; weak spot, weakness; 
弱い人; weak person; 
弱いもの; weak thing
I am not a morning person.|わたしは、あさに弱いです。
Yui is physically weak, but she is a person who understands others' pain.|ユイは体は弱いけど、人のいたみがわかる人げんです。
Even superman gets really weak when he gets the flu.|インフルエンザにかかると、スーパーマンでさえもとても弱くなります。

1016 / 弱点 / Weak Point, Weakness / じゃくてん
弱点が〜; 
弱点が見える; to be able to see the weak point; 
弱点が分かる; to understand the weak point; 
弱点がある; to have weaknesses
弱点を〜;
弱点をもつ; to have weaknesses; 
弱点を知る; to know one's weaknesses; 
弱点をカバーする; to cover weaknesses
〜の弱点;
自分の弱点; one's own weakness; 
人の弱点; people's weakness; 
一つの弱点; one weakness
I finally discovered his weak point!|ついにアイツの弱点を見つけたぜ！
That gymnast's weakness is that her personality lacks flexibility.|あの体そうせん手の弱点は、せいかくがじゅうなんせいに欠けているところだ。
My weak point as an employee is probably that I have no weaknesses.|私の従業員としての弱点は、恐らく弱点が一つも無いことです。

1017 / 時 / Time, Hour / とき
時が〜; 
時が来る; the time comes; 
時がたつ; the time passes; 
時が止まる; time stops
時の〜; 
時のヒーロー; hero of the hour; 
時の人; the person of the hour;
時のながれ; flow of time
時を〜; 
時を止める; to stop time; 
時を知らせる; to signal the time;
時をわすれる; to forget time
When you want to turn on the air conditioning, please press the white button.|れいぼうをつける時は、白いボタンをおしてください。
We can do nothing but wait for time to solve this.|時がかい決してくれるのをまつしかないよ。
Whenever I’m happy, I always think it would be nice if I could stop time.|幸せな時、いつも時が止まればいいのに、と思う。

一時 / One O'clock / いちじ  
一時〜; 
一時ちょうど; exactly 1:00;
一時半; 1:30; 一時三十分; 1:30
I eat lunch at one o'clock every day.|毎日一時にランチを食べます。
Put your toys away by one o'clock.|一時までにおもちゃをかたづけなさい。
If you worked for me, your shift would start at one o’clock in the afternoon and end at three o’clock at latest. Sound good?
  もし私のところで働くなら、あなたのシフトは午後一時から遅くとも三時までになりますが、よろしいですか？

二時半 / Two Thirty, Half Past Two / にじはん
二時半〜;
二時半から; from 2:30;
二時半まで; until 2:30;
二時半ぐらい; about 2:30
The film begins at two-thirty.|そのえいがのかいえん時かんは二時半です。
I have an important appointment at 2:30, but I overslept and now I'm freaking out.|二時半に大じなやくそくがあるのにねぼうしちゃって、ちょっと今かなりテンパってます。
"I’m meeting my mom’s father’s daughter’s niece tomorrow at two-thirty in the afternoon." "Why didn’t you just say you’re meeting your older sister for lunch tomorrow? Jeez!"
  「私は明日午後二時半に、私のお母さんのお父さんの娘の姪っ子に会います。」「なんで、単にお姉ちゃんとランチに行くって言わないの？ありえないんだけど！」

1020 / 何時 / What Time / なんじ
何時〜; 
何時くらい; About what time?;
何時から; From what time?;
何時まで; Until what time?
What time will your plane leave?|何時のひ行きにのるんですか？
What time did you start to feel dizzy?|目まいをかんじはじめたのは何時ですか？
What time are you going bowling tonight?|今夜何時にボーリングに行くの？

1021 / 同時 / Same Time / どうじ
〜同時; 
二人同時; two people at the same time; 
左右同時; right and left simultaneously; 
全て同時; all at the same time
At the same time teacher came in the classroom, the bell rang.|先生が教室に入ってきたと同時に、しぎょうのチャイムがなりました。
I was using the microwave and the toaster at the same time, and the circuit breaker tripped.|でん子レンジとトースターを同時につかったから、ブレーカーがおちちゃったんだ。
"Good lesson today. I’ll see you this time next week," the professional cosplayer and the anime nerd said at the same time.
  「今日はよくできましたね。それではまた来週同じ時間に。」と、コスプレのプロとアニメオタクが同時に言った。

心理 / Mental State, Psychology / しんり
心理〜; 
心理テスト; psychological test; 
心理カウンセラー; psychological counselor;
心理学; psychology
〜の心理;
人の心理; human psychology; 
ユーザーの心理; user's psychology; 
主人公の心理; main character's psychology
I want to be able to manipulate cats' minds as much as I want.|ねこの心理を思うがままにあやつれるようになりたい。
Haruto didn't understand what Riko was thinking about.|春人には、理子の心理が分からなかった。
Can you depict the mental state of Salmon and those she deceives in your novel? I think people would love it.
  サーモンと彼女に翻弄される人々の心理を、君の小説で描いてみてもらえないかな？人気が出ると思うんだけど。

1023 / 地理 / Geography / ちり
地理を〜; 
地理を知る; to know geography;
地理を教える; to teach geography;
地理を学ぶ; to learn geography
〜の地理; 
東京の地理; geography of Tokyo; 
この辺りの地理; the geography of this area; 
日本の地理; Japanese geography
I like studying geography by myself too, but it’s more fun to study with my friend.|一人で地理のべん強をするのもすきですが、友だちとべん強する方がたのしいです。
My American friend is not good at geography at all, so I heard that she used to think Japan was the capital of China until very recently.
  アメリカ人の友人は地理が全くのにが手で、さい近まで日本が中国の首とだとおもっていたらしい。
What do you mean we’re lost? Aren’t you a geography teacher?|俺たちが道に迷ったってどういうことだよ？お前、地理の先公じゃねえのかよ？

紙 / Paper / かみ
紙に〜;
紙に広げる; to spread on paper; 
紙につつむ; to wrap in paper;
紙にまとめる; to collect on paper;
紙にかく; to write on paper
紙〜; 
紙コップ; paper cup;
紙パック; paper bag; 
紙ナプキン; paper napkin
紙を〜; 
紙を切る; to cut paper; 
紙をつかう; to use paper
Please put some paper, a pencil, and an eraser on your desk.|紙とえんぴつとけしゴムをつくえに出してください。
I'm so looking forward to buying a new piece of paper.|あたらしい紙をかうのがたのしみでしかたがない。
Yesterday, I saw a wolf writing a poem on a piece of paper.|昨日、紙の切れ端に詩を書いている狼を見かけた。

1025 / 手紙 / Letter / てがみ
手紙が〜;
手紙が来る; the letter comes;
手紙がある; there is a letter; 
手紙がとどく; the letter arrives
手紙を〜; 
手紙をかく; to write a letter; 
手紙をもらう; to receive a letter;
手紙を出す; to send a letter
〜の手紙; 
母の手紙; mother's letter; 
先生の手紙; teacher's letter, doctor's letter; 
お礼の手紙; thank you letter
お手紙; お手紙; letter
I sent a letter to a foreign country.|外国に手紙を出しました。
Why don't you put up the letter from Kim Jong Il for online auction? I think somebody would buy it.|その金正日からの手紙、ネットオークションに出しちゃえば？きっとだれかしらかうと思うよ。
I’m going to write a very heated letter to Coca-Cola and ask why there is so much sugar in their products.
  私はコカコーラ宛に、心のこもった手紙を書いて、どうして彼らの製品にたくさん砂糖が入っているのかについて尋ねたいと思います。

1026 / 日記 / Diary, Journal / にっき
〜日記; 
ウェブ日記; web journal, blog;
この日記; this diary; 
ダイエット日記; diet diary
日記を〜;
日記をかく; to write a diary; 
日記を見る; to look at the diary;
日記をつける; to keep a diary
I’m going to leave your diary with this book here.|あなたの日記も、この本と一しょにここにおいておきます。
We don't have a culture of diary exchange in North America.|北米には、こうかん日記みたいな文化はないんだよ。
I read Fugu’s journal last night and, to be honest, it was really sad.|昨日の夜、フグの日記を読んだんだけどさ、実はとても悲しい日記だったんだよね。

1027 / 通る / To Pass, To Pass Through, To Travel Along, To Stop By / とおる
〜を通る;
トンネルを通る; to pass through a tunnel; 
前を通る; to pass in front of; 
近くを通る; to pass nearby
〜が通る; 
人が通る; someone passes through; 
火が通る; to be cooked through; 
車が通る; a car passes through
This road is narrow and difficult to pass through.|このみちは、ほそくて通りにくいです。
It seems impossible to become fluent in Japanese, but everybody who learns a new language travels along the same road.
  日本ごがペラペラになるなんてありえないと思うかもしれませんが、それはあたらしい言ごを学ぶだれもが通る道です。
I stopped by Canada on the way to England to get some maple syrup for the tea party.|お茶会のためのメープルシロップを買うために、カナダを通ってイギリスに行った。

1028 / 交通 / Traffic, Transport, Transit / こうつう
交通〜;
交通システム; transportation system;
交通ルール; traffic rules; 
交通安全; traffic safety
交通の〜; 
交通のさまたげ; obstruction of traffic; 
交通のルール; traffic rules; 
交通のあり方; the state of transportation
〜の交通; 
市内の交通; transportation in the city; 
車の交通; car traffic
Traffic accidents happen a lot here.|ここでは、交通じこがよくおきるんです。
Please wear your seatbelt for traffic safety.|交通安全のためにシートベルトをしてください。
When you take the public transit system, you should wear a mask.|こうきょう交通きかんに乗れる時はマスクをした方がいいよ。

高い / Tall, High, Expensive / たかい
高い〜; 
高いところ; high place; 
高いもの; expensive thing;
高いレベル; high level
〜高い; 
かなり高い; considerably high; 
とても高い; very high, very expensive; 
きわめて高い; extremely high, extremely expensive
〜が高い; 
人気が高い; very popular; 
リスクが高い; high risk;
レベルが高い; level is high
This restaurant is expensive, but delicious.|この店は、高いですがおいしいです。
That is too high for me to reach, so I've brought James Stewart, who is very tall, down from Heaven.|わたしには高すぎてとどかないので、とてもせが高いジェームズ・ステュアートを天国からよんできました。
Why are suits from the "Big and Tall" store so expensive?|どうして、「ビッグアンドトール」のスーツはあんなに値段が高いんだ？

1030 / 強い / Strong / つよい
〜強い; 
より強い; even stronger; 
かなり強い; considerably strong; 
とても強い; very strong
強い〜; 
強い人; strong person;
強い力; great strength;
強い思い; strong feelings
〜が強い;
イメージが強い; image is strong; 
力が強い; strong;
思いが強い; feelings are strong
Who is the strongest among these people?|この中で一ばん強いのはだれですか。
By the shape of the beak and color of the feathers, this would probably be a very strong crow.|クチバシと羽の色からさっするに、こいつはおそらくめちゃくちゃ強いカラスだね。
The ocean's currents were too strong for the cat and it was carried away.|海流はとても強く、その猫を川まで運んだ。

強力 / Strength, Strong, Powerful / きょうりょく
強力に〜; 
強力にサポートする; to provide strong support;
強力にバックアップする; to provide strong backup; 
強力にする; to make something powerful
強力な〜;
強力な力; powerful strength; 
強力なリーダーシップ; strong leadership;
強力なツール; powerful tools
This glue is pretty strong, so please be careful.|このボンドは、かなり強力なので気をつけてください。
I was taught how to make a powerful, mini water pump.|強力なミニウォーターポンプの作り方をおしえてもらいました。
When I look at her, I feel as though I have the strength of ten men.|彼女を見つめると、まるで十人力ぐらい強力になったように感じる。

1032 / 教える / To Teach, To Tell / おしえる
〜を教える;
やり方を教える; to teach how to do something; 
ちがいを教える; to teach someone the difference;
ポイントを教える; to teach key points
〜に教える;
学生に教える; to teach students;
ていねいに教える; to teach with care; 
人に教える; to teach others
〜で教える;
大学で教える; to teach at university; 
メールで教える; to tell someone by text; 
学校で教える; to teach at school
Please teach me how to answer.|こたえ方を教えてください。
There aren't any "demon coaches" among people who teach Japanese on WaniKani, are there?|ワニカニで日本ごを教える人の中には、「鬼コーチ」はいないよね？
Good morning, class. Today I’m going to teach you about the dangers of eating eggplant.|皆さん、お早うございます。今日は、皆さんに、茄子を食べることの危険性について教えたいと思います。

1033 / 教室 / Classroom / きょうしつ
教室に〜; 
教室にいる; to be in the classroom; 
教室に行く; to go to the classroom; 
教室に入る; to enter the classroom
教室を〜; 
教室をする; to teach a class, to run a classroom; 
教室を出る; to leave the classroom; 
教室をオープンする; to open a private school, to hold a class
〜教室; 
ヨガ教室; yoga studio, yoga class;
パソコン教室; computer classroom;
ピアノ教室; piano school, piano lessons
What will the students do in the classroom first?|学生は、教室ではじめに何をしますか。
The teacher witnessed him putting a cigarette in his mouth in the classroom.|かれは教室でタバコをくわえたところを、先生に目げきされました。
The teacher had only been gone for five minutes, but the university students had completely trashed the classroom.
  先生がいなくなったのはたったの五分間だけだったが、大学生たちは完璧に教室を滅茶苦茶にしてしまった。

1034 / 組 / Group, Team, Class / くみ
〜組; 
三年二組; third year group two; 
一組; a set; 
三年B組; third year group B
〜の組; 
他の組; another group;
自分の組; one's own group;
前の組; previous group
組に〜;
組になる; to become a group; 
組に分ける; to divide into groups; 
組にする; to make into a group
After this, we’ll be splitting into two teams.|これから、みなさんを二組に分けます。
Our group is famous around here.|オレたちの組はこの辺じゃ有名なんだぜ。
I heard Koichi in grade 3 class 2 was asked out again.|三年二組のコウイチくん、またこく白されたらしいよ。

1035 / 船 / Boat, Ship / ふね
船に〜; 
船にある; to be on the boat; 
船に付ける; to attach to the boat;
船に上がる; to get onto the boat
船の〜; 
船の安全; safety of the boat; 
船のエンジン; boat engine; 
船の形; boat shape
船が〜; 
船がある; there is a boat;
船が出る; the boat leaves; 
船がいる; to need a boat
お船; 
お船; boat
船を〜; 
船を作る; to build a boat; 
船を出す; to put out a boat;
船を見る; to look at a boat
What time will the next ship leave?|次の船は、何時に出ぱつしますか。
I always feel sea sick when I'm on a boat.|船にのると必ず船よいしちゃうんだよね。
I’m the captain and I run this entire ship by myself.|俺様が船のすべてを取り仕切る船長だ。

1036 / 風船 / Balloon / ふうせん
風船を〜; 
風船をとばす; to fly a balloon; 
風船をわる; to pop a balloon; 
風船をふくらます; to inflate a balloon
風船〜;
風船アート; balloon art; 
風船ガム; bubblegum;
風船みたい; like a balloon
風船が〜; 
風船がわれる; the balloon bursts; 
風船がふくらむ; the balloon inflates; 
風船がしぼむ; the balloon deflates
That clown made a dog out of a balloon for me.|あのピエロが、風船で犬を作ってくれたんだ。
Please use this balloon as a motion sickness bag when you feel air sick.|ひ行きによったば合は、この風船をエチケットぶくろの代わりにごしようください。
Some people actually made a house float using balloons.|風船を使って実際に空飛ぶ家を作った人たちがいます。

1037 / 先週 / Last Week / せんしゅう
先週〜; 
先週見た; saw last week; 
先週行った; went last week; 
先週末; last weekend
先週から〜; 
先週からスタート; started from last week;
先週からいる; to be present from last week; 
先週からつづく; to continue from last week
先週の〜;
先週の土日; Saturday and Sunday of last week;
先週のはなし; last week's story, the conversation last week; 
先週のつづき; continuation of last week
School was out last week.|先週は学校はお休みでした。
You sure have grown a lot! You were still tiny last week though.|大きくなったねー。先週はまだあんなに小さかったのに。
I was interviewed by a talking dog about the Comecon convention I attended last week. He was so insulting.|先週出席した経済相互援助会議で、喋る犬にインタビューされたんだが、あいつは本当に嫌なやつだった。

1038 / 今週 / This Week / こんしゅう
今週の〜;
今週のおすすめ; this week's recommendation; 
今週のテーマ; this week's theme; 
今週のゲスト; this week's guest
今週〜; 
今週いっぱい; throughout this week;
今週中; within this week;
今週末; this weekend
There is a lot of work to do this week.|今週は仕ごとがたくさんあります。
Let's meet up in front of the Hachiko statue at 11 a.m. this Tuesday.|今週の火よう日の午前十一じに、しぶ谷のハチ公前でまち合わせをしましょう。
This week is going to be really busy because I just bought four new video games.|新しいゲームを４つ買ったので、今週はかなり忙しくなる。

1039 / 週末 / Weekend / しゅうまつ
週末〜;
週末以外; other than the weekend; 
週末休み; weekend break; 
週末イベント; weekend event
週末に〜; 
週末にする; to do on the weekend; 
週末になる; to become the weekend;
週末に行く; to go on the weekend
週末は〜; 
週末は休む; to rest on weekends; 
週末はいる; to be present on weekends; 
週末は出かける; to go out on weekends
I was in Okinawa over the weekend.|週末は、おきなわにりょ行に行っていました。
We got 10 centimeters of snow last weekend.|せん週末、雪が十センチつもりました。
We just won the lottery, so do you want to go to Rome this weekend for pizza?|宝くじに当たったんだけど、週末ローマにピザでも食べに行かない？

1040 / 雪 / Snow / ゆき
雪が〜;
雪がつもる; the snow accumulates;
雪がある; there is snow; 
雪がふる; to snow
雪を〜; 
雪を見る; to look at snow;
雪をたのしむ; to enjoy snow;
雪を作る; to make snow
雪の〜; 
雪の女王; The Snow Queen (literature); 
雪の音; sound of snow;
雪の山; mountain of snow
雪〜; 
雪あそび; play in the snow; 
雪だるま; snowman; 
雪まつり; snow festival
Does it snow in Japan too?|日本でも、雪がふりますか？
Did you also get snow over there?|そっちも雪、つもった？
The first time I ever saw snow was when I was 46 years old.|私が初めて雪を見たのは、四十六歳の時でした。

1041 / 魚 / Fish / さかな
魚の〜; 
魚のウロコ; fish scale; 
魚のホネ; fishbones; 
魚のエサ; fish food
魚が〜; 
魚がとれる; to be able to catch fish; 
魚がいる; there are fish; 
魚がつれる; to be able to catch fish
お魚;
お魚; fish
魚を〜; 
魚を見る; to look at fish; 
魚をとる; to catch a fish; 
魚を食べる; to eat fish
I like fish, but I don’t like it raw.|魚はすきですが、生魚はにが手です。
I always eat granola and fish for a well-balanced breakfast.|バランスのいいちょう食をとるために、いつもグラノーラと魚を食べます。
I’ll never buy fish from the back of a pickup truck in Mexico again.|もう絶対にメキシコの軽トラの積み荷から魚を買うもんか。

1042 / 金魚 / Goldfish / きんぎょ
金魚を〜; 
金魚をすくう; to scoop up a goldfish;
金魚を入れる; to put in goldfish;
金魚を見る; to look at goldfish
金魚の〜; 
金魚のフン; goldfish poop, a hanger-on; 
金魚の水; the goldfish's water; 
金魚のエサ; goldfish food
金魚が〜; 
金魚が弱る; goldfish gets weaker; 
金魚がいる; there is a goldfish; 
金魚が死ぬ; the goldfish dies
I scooped this goldfish at a goldfish scooping booth during a summer festival five years ago.|これは、五年前の夏まつりの金魚すくいですくった金魚です。
Can goldfish get colds, too?|金魚もかぜをひくんですか？
Goldfish only have three second memories so they’re always surprised when they realize that they live in a castle.|金魚は、三秒間しか記憶がないので、自分たちがお城に住んでいることに気がつく度に驚いています。

1043 / 海魚 / Ocean Fish, Saltwater Fish / かいぎょ, うみざかな
海魚を〜; 
海魚をつる; to catch an ocean fish; 
海魚をとる; to catch ocean fish; 
海魚を食べる; to eat ocean fish
Is salmon a saltwater fish? Or is it a freshwater fish?|さけは海魚ですか？それとも川魚ですか？
In the sea, there were a lot of colorful ocean fish swimming around.|海中には、色とりどりの海魚がおよいでいました。
There is a wide variety of saltwater fish at the aquarium, but the staff said we’re not allowed to eat any of them.
  水族館には沢山の種類の海魚がいますが、スタッフは僕達に一匹も食べてはいけませんと言いました。

1044 / 鳥 / Bird / とり
鳥の〜; 
鳥のさえずり; bird's chirping;
鳥のフン; bird poop;
鳥の声; the cry of a bird
鳥〜; 
鳥たち; birds; 
鳥インフルエンザ; bird flu;
鳥さん; bird
鳥が〜; 
鳥が来る; a bird comes;
鳥がなく; the bird cries;
鳥がいる; there is a bird
There are a lot of beautiful birds in this park.|この公えんには、きれいな鳥がたくさんいます。
When I opened my curtain this morning, everything was covered with bird poop.|けさカーテンをあけたら、何もかもが鳥のふんにおおわれていました。
I wish I was a bird because then I wouldn’t get made fun of for walking like one.|自分が鳥だったらいいのになと思うよ。だって、そうすればもう鳥みたいに歩いているとからかわれないだろうからね。

1045 / 白鳥 / Swan / はくちょう
白鳥が〜; 
白鳥がやって来る; the swan comes along;
白鳥がいる; there is a swan;
白鳥が見つかる; to find a swan
白鳥の〜; 
白鳥のむれ; a flock of swans;
白鳥のすがた; the figure of a swan; 
白鳥のみずうみ; Swan Lake (ballet)
Pulling a swan out of the lake just to take a selfie with it is too cruel.|自どりをするためだけに白鳥をみずうみから引きずり出すなんてひどすぎるよ。
They say that white wine goes well with fish, but do you know what kind of wine would go well with swan?|白ワインは魚りょうりに合うっていうけど、白鳥りょうりに合うワインは何か知っていますか？
Swans are so pretty, but they use foul language.|白鳥はとても美しいが、汚らしい言葉遣いをする。

1046 / 黄色 / Yellow, Yellow Color, Color Yellow / きいろ
黄色に〜; 
黄色に色づく; to turn yellow;
黄色になる; to become yellow; 
黄色に見える; to look yellow
黄色の〜; 
黄色の花; yellow flower; 
黄色の光; yellow light; 
黄色の色; yellow color
Are there yellow or green pens?|黄色かみどり色のペンはありますか？
An American crow is well known for the beauty of its yellow wings.|アメリカのカラスは、美しい黄色の羽をもっていることで有名です。
If your urine changes from clear to yellow, you should drink more water.|もし尿のいろが透明から黄色に変わってしまったら、もっと水を飲んだ方が良いという合図です。

1047 / 黒い / Black / くろい
〜が黒い;
目が黒い; eyes are black; 
色が黒い; color is black; 
水が黒い; water is black
黒い〜; 
黒い雨; black rain, rain following a nuclear explosion; 
黒い色; black color; 
黒いもの; black thing
Can you get me the black hat up there?|その上の、黒いぼう子をとってください。
That man with the black goatee is notorious for being black-hearted.|あの黒ひげの男ははら黒いことで有名です。
My favorite channel on TV is called "Black Screen." It only airs when the power goes off.|私の一番好きなテレビ番組は、「黒い画面」です。この番組は、停電になった時だけ放送されます。

1048 / 黒人 / Black Person, Black People / こくじん
黒人〜; 
黒人文化; Black Culture; 
黒人アーティスト; Black artist;
黒人社会; Black society
黒人の〜; 
黒人の少年; Black boy; 
黒人の人; Black person; 
黒人の少女; Black girl
I can’t understand how there are still people who discriminate against black people.|なぜ未だに黒人をさべつする人がいるのか、りかいできません。
I'm black, he's white. What's wrong with that?|おれは黒人であいつは白人だけど、それがどうしたの？
Peanut butter was invented by a black person named George Washington Carver.|ピーナッツバターは、ジョージ・ワシントン・カーヴァーという名の黒人によって発明された。

1049 / 人形 / Doll, Puppet / にんぎょう
人形を〜; 
人形をつかう; to use a doll; 
人形を作る; to make a doll;
人形を見る; to look at a doll
〜人形; 
あやつり人形; puppet;
五月人形; dolls for the Boys’ Festival in May; 
からくり人形; mechanical doll
人形〜; 
人形たち; dolls; 
人形みたい; like a doll; 
人形えらび; choosing dolls
お人形〜; 
お人形さん; doll; 
お人形たち; dolls; 
お人形あそび; playing with dolls
I’m going to bring a doll for her birthday present.|たん生日プレゼントに、人形をもって行きます。
Put the doll back the way you found it.|その人形、ちゃんと元のところにもどしておいてね。
Until the age of 17, my best friend was a sock puppet.|17歳まで、私の親友は靴下で作った腕人形だった。








































